# "'Protected' While Black" by Calvin Westerfield

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/11lkW8Vdxg5D9uGPAkZvpLhFkLo2BjgxGkOHUCm_Jdyk/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**“Protected” While Black by Calvin Westerfield**

I actually had to grab my dictionary to look up the definition of “protected” because it’s not a black feeling or a term black people use often in America. Webster defines it: “to keep from being damaged, attacked, stolen, or injured…”. Absolutely none of these privileges afforded to American citizens apply to me or most black people I know! In fact, our lives reflect the contrary of every definitive aspect of this term used in Webster’s dictionary. Black and brown americans have be irreparably damaged by slavery, and continue to be damaged daily daily in the country by the bigots who run it. Black and brown people in America are constantly attacked by the very agents that are supposed to protect! I could list hundred of examples, but you are as aware as I am of this atrocious state of brutality in America. Up to 75 million Africans were stolen from Africa. Many were packed in U.S. vessels and brought to this stolen land. Injury is the desultory state of existence the majority of black and brown people have been living in for the past 550 year in America. The elite are quick to display the statistics of Black-on-Black violence, but don’t reveal the conditions of overpopulation coupled with poverty they dismiss as inconsequential, or the numerous studies that were done to create such hostile environments for America’s regrettable product of slavery. You didn’t think the word “projects” was just a coincidence, did you? The Genocide Project.

I hear the word “protected” and think of the Armed Forces, the Constitution, the Federal and Local Police Departments and all the other agents of this country that are designed to protect. My father is a Vietnam Veteran, and I honor those who sacrifice for this nation. On the other hand, I look at how the United States uses its military against its own citizens of color! The tanks and armed guards that are sent to the oppressed places in this country when the people have suffered intolerable, opprobrious treatment and decided to rebel. Or how they are used in “America’s War on Drugs”. Protection is not treating American citizens as enemy combatants. Yet some feel confederate memorabilia should be “protected” under U.S. law (that’s another essay). When will the United States launch a “War on Racism” or a “War on Poverty”? The Federal Government spends billions of America’s tax dollars to launch corruption campaigns Black citizens; Cointelpro and corrupt CIA operations. Consider the time and effort it spent corrupting the Nation of Islam, deterring Dr. M.L.K’s Civil Rights movement, opprobrious crippling of the Black Panther Party, and the unconstitutional CCE (Continuing Criminal Enterprise) laws designed to profile and incarcerate people of color for gang affiliation, when it’s the United States that brings the drugs into the projects and distributes the guns! These are not conspiracy theories. Do your research. Look at the police departments, how its officers are obdurately disposing of black bodies daily in the name of self-defense, then exculpated. Why are these murders of American citizens so disproportionate? Does imminent danger of an officer mean that because they lack equanimity and fear a particular culture they are justified when they murder unarmed, innocent Black people? That’s not protection, and the term simply does not apply to Blacks in America!

I “protected” my life, and became another example of denigration; sent to prison for murder, and sentenced to 20 years for killing a violent, delusional and paranoid schizophrenic who stabbed my ten times in the back. The State of Michigan only saw an opportunity to destroy two black birds with one stone. An example of how the Constitution of the United States affords no protection for Blacks in America. The supposed right to Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness was not was intended for people who look like me. We are not the forefathers posterity! Still considered three-fifths of a human being, a paragon of this country so cleverly insinuated by James Madison. Protection is a thing of privilege in America; White privilege.