# "35 House" by Leo Cardez

Last Updated: February 24, 2021 4:41 PM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ers54yAgPwdS1yoffwVyf_Wo-3ZDC53dGg_K6AtKTG8/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**35 House by Leo Cardez**

Covid-19 was a pandemic. Covid-20 was a disaster. Covid-21 was a dystopian nightmare come to life

The vicious disease known as the Smitty Sniffle swept the globe with astonishing speed (most of those infected were dead within 24 hours), killing more than 99% of the Earth's population. With so few people left to keep the systems running, civilizations collapsed: no power, communication lines, running water, borders – no more life as we knew it. All the conveniences of modern life snuffed out in an instant. I lost my glasses and had to learn to live without.

Survivors developed tribalism and pseudo family units called Kins. Kins are either nomadic, following hunting routes once used by our ancestors or gatherers, farming and ranching in small communities for survival - it seems the writers of shows like The Walking Dead were prophetic in their assumptions of human nature. But I know none of this

I am the sole survivor of an isolated penal island off the coast of Norway known simply as 35 House. At full capacity we had just under 2,000 inmates and guards. When the disease arrived at our shores I was the sole convict housed in the segregation unit (the Hole) I was serving my last 30 days for fighting, although now I can admit I was wrong and I regret it. My god do I regret it.

It was eerily silent. I didn't hear the usual moans and screeches of the aging prison. No meals were delivered but without a clock I had no way of knowing the actual time. It was only when two full days and nights had passed without so much as a door opening and the strange putrid scent beginning to permeate my cell that I knew something was terribly and irreversibly wrong.

It took another two days to escape my cell, but fear and hunger are powerful forces. I found my fellow inmates and guards at various stages of decomposition. The disease ravages the arteries causing massive heart attacks and almost instantaneous death – and that way it is merciful. I found my best friend still in his bunk having slept through his own death; others were not so fortunate.

I've moved into the warden's residents - the house on the hill – an old, sad and lonely edifice that used to be the town chapel before the island was bought by the Norwegian government and transformed into a minimum-security open-plan re-entry facility and compound. Although spacious, open and airy it still holds a certain quaintness that makes me feel at ease, as if the saints and spirits once worshipped here continue to watch over the sacred remains. I have long buried or burned (when I became too tired to dig) my fellow islanders and have given up hope of finding any other survivors or of ever being rescued. I'm sure penal islands full of rapists and murderers are not on anyone's priority list. My daily routines are relegated to acts of survival;  foraging for food, chopping wood for heat and cooking, and reading books to pass the time. I have accepted my fate. I will live out my days here alone.

It has been two years since I escaped my cell and not a day goes by I don't regret it. Why did God allow me to live? Is this some form of cruel cosmic joke I don't yet understand? There is no food left on the island and the fish have moved on to warmer climates. My efforts to build a boat of some kind have all failed with almost fatal consequences. There are no more books to read and past memories of loved ones have erased their faces - I can no longer remember a time before being left alone. My mind, my new prison, argues and reasons with me to end my misery, but I am a coward. Every night I fall asleep with the hopes it will be my last and every morning I wake up to the nightmare that is my reality.

I wake up to the thump-thump-thump sound which I imagine are hunger-pain headaches. They're getting louder; closer. I dare allow myself a hint of hope as I run outside in nothing but socks and underwear and there it is, in all its glory, a beautiful green helicopter with a bright red and white cross. As I wave my arms furiously I shout and run after them. They see me. I drop to my knees and begin to weep. I cannot hold the tears back – tears that have been locked in a secret chamber of my heart now free to spill on my face. My life was over. I was in many real ways dead and buried, but today I have been resurrected. Today, my life begins anew.