# "A Mid-Spring Fever Dream" by Unknown

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 06 - June
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/13b8c2EdmJiRtcMAzR1vwNDwGC3FXvreLOxlSNLaimQ0/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**A Mid-Spring Fever Dream:**

One spring, when I was about nine years old, my family decided to take a trip. The weather was cold, overcast, and drizzly. A sort of melancholy haze hung in the air, as if to threaten wetter weather that never quite followed through. The cold, damp, English air could cut to the bone; so we bundled up in layers of thick socks, wooly jumpers, rain slickers, and rubber wellingtons for protection. We piled into the car and, as we traveled, it was easy to let the ebb and flow of grassy knolls and stone walls lull one into pensive thought. After a time, I had lost track, we arrived at a small cottage with a sign: “Faerie Glen”. As we exited the car, I was struck by the place. The cottage, while modern, was also rustic and idyllic. The fence surrounding the cottage and yard was stone and wood, no different than what we passed for the last hundred miles, but it seemed to almost hold the forest beyond at bay. While the trees were not expansive, like many stands of trees in Wales, they were tall and ancient. Unlike many forests I had been within, the ground beneath these beech and birch trees were oddly empty of other plants except for a green carpet of grass and moss. The trees, smooth and gray, were mottled with white where the occasional strip of bark was peeling away. The air contained an unusual quality; as if the trees, towering above, lost in the hazy rolling mist of the drizzling clouds, were drowning out the rest of the world. My parents and I moved through the trees until the glen suddenly opened up into a rolling vale. The world seemed to have been swallowed in a sargassum of sea grass. Stands of trees stood out like islands of stillness in the sweeping vista as dark veils of rain moved across the boundaries of that world. Despite the ethereal nature of the vale before me, the trees behind called with a shadowy susurrus. My dad and I ventured back into the forest while my mom stayed to enjoy the panorama. As we wound our way back amongst the trees, the burbling of water caught our ears. THe forest became more still. The deeper we aimlessly meandered the woods, looking for the stream. I would occasionally lose sight of my dad as we would wander our different paths. As he would pass behind a tree, time, for a brief moment, would stand still, The weight of the forest seemed to bare down on me, as if eyes, older than I could conceive, were watching. Every time the tree stepped between my dad and I, it felt as if whatever was watching would get closer, as if dashing from tree to tree. In my head, I could see the face of a pixie or leprechaun peeking from behind a tree. As I peered from tree to tree, searching my mind as if it could view all sides of the tree simultaneously, could picture the tree suddenly being empty and the face peering from behind a completely different one. The shadows of the woods started to weigh upon me until my dad called out to me that he had found the stream. It was a small brook, stones and moss carpeted its edges, dark and feathery with age. As it meandered the forest floor, spots of stone could be seen where the water had polished it with time. As we followed the stream, the mood of the forest seemed to lighten. My dad said that there was probably a spring nearby, since there had been no sign of the river from the road. We walked further in, lost, in quiet contemplation of the brooks soft murmurs, looking for the stream’s source. My dad and I suddenly came upon a bright patch of yellow, a splash of spring in this timeless sedate setting. It was a first bloom of daffodils, rising out of the edge of the water. We discussed collecting a few on the way back since they were my mom’s favorite flower. As we headed upstream further, fording along the run of water, the land slowly started to rise. The forest started to become more wild. The rocks a little larger and the footing less sure as the moss took over. With the treacherous footing and the fading light of day, now that the floom of twilight was fast approaching, my dad thought it was time to turn back. The stream beckoned to us after the arduous trek, so we decided to slack our thirst. Despite my misgivings about drinking straight from the stream, my dad said that it should be safe having naturally filtered through the moss until it was crystal clear. I took a sip and a wave of cold froze my mouth while the taste was as pure as the water was clear. Being refreshed and with day fading, my dad and I hurried to the spot where we had encountered the daffodils. The air seemed to lighten with our conversation as we headed back. We puzzled over how to harvest the flower, not having a knife with us, knowing that my mom would enjoy them. As we saw the familiar splash of vibrant yellow, we decided that it would be best to just uproot the little teacup shaped flowers and wash their roots in the stream. They could always be trimmed later. I started to search the daffodils as we approached, looking for the ones that were the nicest. I was dismayed. I noticed that several had fallen over as if trampled. Upset at the thought that someone would do that to such a beautiful place, I started to gaze around the area to see who would be so inconsiderate. I saw, not a soul, or even a flicker of movement. When I reached the fallen flora, I noticed that their ends were laying in the water of the brook as if to soothe the flowers. As I lifted them up, I saw that the flowers were pristine. It seemed that the daffodils had been cut at the base in one clean swipe; and left in the water to keep them fresh. I thought back to the inexplicable feeling of being watched. I had no explanation of how the flowers came to be there, ready and waiting. There was no one else around and there had been no other cars at the gate of the glade. To this day, I hope to take my daughter there to experience the magic of this world.