# "Accomplishments" by James Bauhaus

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 06 - June
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y_zJJ8ytb2tkDaO0LFtx2p2PS1EuHYmCG0hU0uuEbsA/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Accomplishments By James Bauhaus**	Prisoncrats stay up at night, and scheme all pay, trying to prevent their caged victims from accomplishing anything useful to us, which means detrimental to them. An example is me getting four of the prison cops here fired or runoff for torturing me after I had submitted to them hogtying me. A friend of mine, Ricky Green, did the same to Mcalester cops, plus they had to pay him $50,000 for being tortured for 3 days in 5-point restraints. 	It was my complaints to the FBI that did this. My complaints to the FTC made the cops lower their price on salt from $45/LB to “only” $13/LB. This took me two years, but I did it. Further, separate, complaints to the FTC made the cops stop screwing us so badly on our purchases from their prison store. Their main scam, netting them millions of our dollars, was to keep our money for an extra 1 to 5 days before purchasing or delivering our goods. This shady practice, unnoticed by the ignorant, nearly illiterate inmates, persisted for years. Their second most lucrative scam was to delay refunds on out-of-stock purchases. This was like the cops and keefe corp made themselves interest-free loans out of our pockets. They got away with this so easily, and for so long, that the prison cops even began secretly ordering us expensive items, such as sneakers, radios and TVs and taking months to agree that we had never ordered the stuff and refunding our money. The last thing that these Geo-corp cops ever expected to find is a financially knowledgeable captive who knew how to stop their victimization. I stopped or minimized all three of these scams, and I stay vigilant for when the cops start pulling these same, and other, scams again. You can’t win and forget about it. No matter what the judge says, or the federal bureaucrats, their fix is never complete or lasting. The cops always bring it back, soon as they think that they can get away with it again. 	I made them fix the roof. It used to leak like a old tin barn in here, every time it rained. Now it only leaks in two places (down from 5) in this 300-man mini-prison (one of eight mini-prison “barns” here). Our fine governors and legislature. Having brutally raped Oklahoma taxpayers since 1980, think that they are going to “delay maintenance” on their dungeons to save money to give the cops a raise.	Not while I’m in here! They are still fixing the roof. They keep digging bigger drainage ditches too, because I complain to the feds every time the inmates downstairs get flooded out. They are getting better at figuring out that water runs downhill. 	The kitchen cops and inmates tried to poison us last month. While the ignorant, mal-educated inmates turned their noses up at the trays they had been handed instead of trying to sleaze-off with more of the crap, I was writing the health department. The inmates whined and cried to get new trays of edible food while snaking away with the cake on the poison baloney trays like a flock of carrion eating hyenas. I spent 3 stamps on letters to stop them from poisoning us again tomorrow!

While the inmates merely cringe and take the shearing blasts of “compliance” noises that the cops casually use on us puring their megaphonic announcements, I wrote my politicians and other agencies, to make the cops stop joy-blasting us with hilarious ear-torture. The sadistic cops still joy-blast us sometimes, but no longer every god damned day and night anymore!

Now, one of my projects is to take the fed’s USDA food pyramid and use it to bludgeon the cops into providing us a much less unhealthy diet of mostly poisonous balonies, (sodium nitrate) mystery meat and rice, (arsenic) devoid of fruit and fish. I can do this, too, because I didn’t run away from school to learn pool and glue sniffing. I don’t waste my years watching people on TV chase balls, or slap cards and dominoes endlessly, for nothing. I use my literacy and a few stamps instead, to make accomplishments.