# "Almost" by Antwon Housey

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 05 - May
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VEGISlo-M0noXG35U8U6r7KIDA3N9USenVM5zjRFmjI/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Almost by Antwon Housey**

This story is about how I almost got away from doing time in GDC. One day in the peak of the summer I found myself in the company of one of my “gang related brother’s little cousin”. Now this certain brother of mines was already incarcerated with a 20 year sentence. Because of my loyalty at the time I allowed myself to be manipulated by his “cousin”. He told me that he needed a phone so he could keep in touch with his family. At this time I had an illegal contract with AT&T, I had two sim cards and two open lines this contract so because of my own naivete. I give this peculiar stranger my sim card and phone. Before I gave him the property we negotiated that he would’ve paid me $150,000 dollars the next day at noon. Well sunset came, then noon arrived and I was ready to receive my bounty because I had plans to compete with that money. Now I’ve been calling this phone for 2 hrs straight, to no avail. I’m not a bad friend, however I’m a diabolic enemy. I happened to know this guy’s baby mother by mutual friendship. So I take it upon myself to go and visit her (let’s just say she was very frightened by my presence). I tell her to call her sperm donor now! Amazingly he answers on the second ring. I coach her on what to say and in 5 minutes. He pulled up at her house smiling until I revealed myself. The smile is now a frown. He tried to tell me he didn’t know the number belonged to me, he had the money but it was at his aunt's house and if I waited here you would be back with it. Not in this lifetime give me the car keys I’ll drive you give me the directions. Long story short we ended up at a gas station, because he kept “forgetting” his way. Now as we are leaving this gas station right before we get on the highway my first mind tells me to put on my seatbelt, I’m glad I listened because 10 mins later I saw blue flashing lights and it began to rain while the sun was still shining. So as I’m about to stop he says “Don’t pull over this car is stolen.” With no other choice I stomped the gas pedal, while doing 85 mph the little Honda Civic began to hydroplane me being experienced with this factor and tried to straighten the wheel. Next thing I know the whole car started to barrel roll from tires to roof at least nine times. When it was finished all I remember saying was “get you butt out of my face.” I got no response so I pushed with all my might when I stood up. I only saw blood everywhere. I thought he was dead so when the police asked me who was driving I said he was and played like I was innocent, I was driven home from the accident by the same officer. I got home and told my pops everything and all he was you almost went to jail LOL! We laughed until the new came in a month later looking to find my whereabouts. I ended up going to prison after all, because I just wanted what was rightfully mine. Almost never counts in reality only when you are playing horseshoes can you score by almost making it close to the poles!