# "Almost There" by Matthew Tomlinson

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 05 - May
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1krPYJFXoCN603wwg1rInp1ZsZ9nMmJ1x9QAOV8aWuhI/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**“Almost There” By Matthew Tomlinson**

Michelle asked if we felt like we almost knew a particular author. Diane Spencer, Julie Spencer, and Karla Norris almost seem to be here on Bill Clements Major Psychiatric Unit with me. Any prisoner almost knows them. Their stories accurately reflect prison life the way our daily lifestyle truly is. Shannon Guess Richardson, Sarah Luedecke, and the inimitable Catherine LaFleur come to mind as other prodigies. This family of PE authors represents favorite books on my virtual library shelf. Creative writing instructors stress a primary lesson: write about what you know. The stories that these authors write are the stories I would write if I had their skills. The inside jokes ring all too true when told with the eloquent honesty of those inside an audience of those of us also inside.

PE compilations remind me of a book. Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? By Philip K. Dick was a PE Book Club gift. In that story, the predominant religion was Mercerism. Empathy boxes were permitted people to vicariously ascend the brown, barren hill with an aged Wilbur Mercer. Unseen tormentors perpetually threw rocks at climbers. PE authors, unlike Mercerism, throw no rocks at me. Yet the scenario is the bedrock of another prison day. There’s always a brown, barren hill to trudge. There are always plenty of hidden adversaries throwing rocks at climbers. It’s almost as though K. Dick was in prison when he wrote the book. PE compilations allow me to almost envision each author as their familiar voices describe their climbs, rising ever upward, overcoming the barriers of each outcropping. Obstructing stones become gravel underfoot as the authors summit the drab uprising. It’s almost as though they are here, or I am there.

In the book, Wilbur Mercer repeatedly falls back to the Tomb World. In Ezekiel 37:1-4 we read of the Valley of Dry Bones. God empowers the prophet to speak the dry bones back into living people again. In the book, Wilbur Mercer brings fallen fellow climbers out of the Tomb World to the drudgery of another trudge up the bleak hill. In the PE compilations, there are families of PE authors whose stories do the same for me. In the book, Mercer promises to perpetually look for others who have fallen. “I lifted you from Tomb World just now and I will continue to lift you until you lose interest and want to quit. But you will have to stop searching for me because I will never stop searching for you.” (page 215). Each PE compilation carries the Mercer Promise. Each compilation gives me another 32-page library to search. One or another PE author creates a story to lift me out of the Tomb World of Administrative Segregation of Bill Clements Major Psychiatric Unit, for a timespan. Those PE stories which make me feel like I almost know the author are those stories that tell of the climb up another day of prison life the way the climb really is, dusty rock and all.

It’s almost as though this family of PE authors has engaged in a form of dimensional transfer. Each PE author moves from his or her own place and time into my cell. They’re almost here, now. That’s what makes them my favorite books on my virtual library shelf. How long do the authors remain in my cell? They remain as long as their stories lodge in my sub consciousness. For example, memory abruptly returns in the story “B.B.” by Kwaneta Harris to mind. Some rapid rooting in my locker uncovers the manila envelope full of PE compilations. On pages 36&37 of the October/November 2016 compilation, for the World Cue “Leap of Faith”, the story remains ready for reading. The character B.B. appears again, in her black business pants suit and stilettos, facing her fear in that Alabama hotel lobby. “Y’all, we family,” announces B.B. in her Detroit black accent to her Alabama white kinfolk. Kwaneta Harris nailed the theme “Leap of faith” with unmatchable class and panache. Through her story, she’s almost here. She’s another favorite book on my virtual library shelf.

Michelle’s question of whether we feel like we almost know a particular author prompted this long-winded response. I recognize the voices of a family of PE authors, for they speak my language with a native accent. Wherever their story takes me, I’m almost there.