# "Almost" by Daniel Montano

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 05 - May
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CPO6qAksLcVEaI0m-oE6TV73sqQGOv4x4E5IQ5CoHO0/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Almost By Daniel Montano**

As I put my thoughts to the word “almost,” I ask myself what comes to mind. What comes to mind are the almosts before the circumstances that brought me to prison with this life sentence, the almost, where my life could have taken a different route, a more positive route.

The first almost: as I was growing up, I didn’t look to the streets for who I wanted to be, I wanted to be just like my brothers. However, I ended up as a gang member. Like most kids I idolized my brothers; I wanted to do everything they did, whether it was sports, hanging out or going out to parties on the weekends. Going out on the weekends would be like a family affair, the house would be a little chaotic with my brothers and sisters getting ready to go out, many times together as a group. Unfortunately I was seen as too young to go along. Even on other types of occasions when I wanted to hang out with my brothers I was turned away, despite many attempts. It wasn’t malicious, they just didn’t want their little brother tagging along and being a burden. I began to look elsewhere: right outside my house. Where I came from, sooner or later, a kid who hasn’t even found his own voice is confronted with the decision to join the neighborhood gang or not. I joined, and that is when my first “almost” came to an end. Following that, at the age of sixteen I was arrested and convicted of assaults with a deadly weapon and sentenced to eight years in the California Youth Authority.

I did take advantage of my time there---I earned my GED and I not only studied firefighting and medical first-respondent, I also participated in actual forestry firefighting. Around this time my second almost was beginning to take shape. Before paroling on my twenty-first birthday, on a Sunday morning, which coincided with the beginning of the fire season, a few of us from the fire camp were allowed to take an exam all aspiring seasonal firefighters take. We ended up scoring at the top of the list. I was almost surely going to get hired that season as a seasonal firefighter. Unfortunately it was set to be a weak fire season compared to the previous season. The returning firefighters from the previous year were hired, and no one from the new season was. Still, I forged ahead that summer, signing up for college courses, with firefighting in mind. I took four classes all in all: forestry, firefighting, structural, fire tech and speech elective, Monday through Thursday 7pm - 10pm. I was a full-time student. I also had a full-time job Monday through Friday 6am-2pm; unfortunately I was living that gang life everywhere in between. I had family, friends, even some of my fellow gang members trying, all in their own ways, to get me away from that life. I always felt a warrior’s spirit within me, making me stand for something. Unfortunately at a young age it manifested itself into a misdirected pride, which, once it began, was hard to control. Once again, at this point in my life, loving my little college experience and having no problems, working hard for my money, I was so close to changing. I really was almost there; I felt everything starting to turn within me, especially that misdirected pride. Unfortunately, once again, the gang lifestyle got the best of me. Six months after being released from the Youth Authority I was arrested and then convicted of second-degree murder, sentenced under California’s three strikes law to a fifty-one-to-life term, the end of my second almost and which I thought was my last.

Now twenty-two years later, with a lot of ups and downs in between and just taking things as they come, good and bad, I feel the most optimistic I’ve ever felt. I feel I’m in the middle of yet another almost, only this time I don’t intend to stop at almost. I will break through that ceiling between myself and my dreams, prison or no prison. I refuse to look back at yet another almost, whatever my future holds, when I look back I want to see that I finally gave it my best and never gave up. I almost gave up, but never did.