# "An Attitude of Gratitude" by William Hill

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aAc1TL8ieI6d1z0kZ_tcxJcybUvKihpeXPbe39pkMw4/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**“An Attitude of Gratitude” by William Hill**

I had never actually thought much about gratitude until I saw it as a topic for a writing project. After only a few minutes of reflection on the topic I realized that even though I am in prison, I still have a lifetime of things to be grateful for.

The main thing that I am grateful for is my family, especially my parents. I have heard horror stories from other prisoners about living in dysfunctional families. I heard stories of abuse, neglect, and even abandonment. I never experienced any of those things. I had parents that loved my siblings and me in the best way they knew how. We never had a lot of money but they always made sure we had the things we needed. There was always a roof over our heads, clothes on our backs and food on the table. Dad was one of those men who did not say the words “I love you” very often, but all of us knew how much he did through his actions.

I remember one time in particular when I was sick and missed almost an entire week of school. I was restricted to bed rest and I was miserable because I didn’t have the entertainment kids today have with TVs and computers. One of my childhood hobbies was collecting sports cards. I must have had thousands of baseball and football cards that I would trade with my friends at school. Dad hated this hobby. He could not understand how I was willing to spend the hard-earned money I made from chores just to buy a picture of some overpaid athlete on a piece of cardboard. My pleas that those cards were going to be worth a lot of money someday continually fell on deaf ears. On this particular day, dad went to town and left me at home with mom. Imagine my surprise when dad opened my bedroom door and threw a dozen or so packs of football cards on my bed. Even though he thought it was silly to spend money on such “nonsense,” he realized that they were important to me, and he wanted to make me feel better as I recuperated. He did not say “I love you son” but I heard it loud and clear by his simple act.

Mom, on the other hand, never missed a chance to tell each one of us how much she loved us. I cannot remember a time that I left the house to go to school where she did not tell me “baby, I love you.” I used to get tired of her saying it to me all the time, especially when friends were around, but I would give anything for her to say those words just one more time. I remember a day when she also proved the truth of her words by her actions.

One summer I was out in a hayfield baling hay, trying to rake them into windrows before it rained. I didn’t quite make it. Suddenly the sky turned black and the clouds let loose with what the old folks used to call a “frog drowner.” Early on, dad instilled in me the necessity of getting away from a tractor during a lightning storm, and on this day the sky was lit with so many flashes of lightning, it looked like a Pink Floyd concert. I turned the tractor’s ignition off and began walking home in the torrential rainstorm. Fortunately, the walk was only about a half mile from the house but it was raining so hard I was completely drenched by the time I reached shelter. Every other step I wiped raindrops off my face. I was wearing a replica football jersey with red shoulder patches and a red “10” on the front and back. Apparently the dyes used on this shirt were not so great because in the rain the colors began to run.

Mom was at the house making lunch when she happened to look out the window and saw me, her baby boy, walking up the road with what she thought to be blood running down my arms and smeared all over my face. In today’s parlance she “freaked.” I mean she went absolutely bonkers. She ran out of the house while I was still at least a hundred yards away and grabbed me, trying to find where the blood was coming from. She kept yelling, “Where are you hurt? Where are you hurt?” I told her, “I’m not hurt; I’m soaked.” Again, she never said the actual words “I love you” but by her actions she shouted them loudly.

I am also grateful for all the teachers that I have had in my life who not only tried to teach academics but instilled confidence in me as well. I am especially grateful for two teachers in particular: Mr. Jones who taught eighth grade science and made learning fun, and Mrs. Williams who made me keep a journal in freshman year English, igniting within me a desire to write that still burns today. Both of these teachers did more than just provide me with information---they taught me how to think for myself and how to question said information. I will never forget Mr. Jones and his passion for all things science and Mrs. Williams who saw something in me and continually encouraged me to dream bigger and expect more of myself than I thought was actually capable. Both of these teachers took the time to invest in me a part of them.

As important as they were in my life, I am even more grateful for the impact that others made. People such as Mr. and Mrs. Grimes, Mr. and Mrs. Sutton, Mr. and Mrs. Hurley, and Mr. and Mrs. Cook, all of whom took the time and effort to make sure that I was able to get to Sunday school and other church services. These men and women taught Sunday school classes, conducted Vocational Bible School during the summers and led youth group outings to invest into my life things of eternal value, not just temporal value.

Even in prison I have people who I am grateful for, like those who we call in here “Old Schools” because they are a little older or because they have been in here long enough to know the ins and outs of prison. Just one quick example of this was when I first came into the system and wanted to get a tattoo. Not just any tattoo, mind you, but a tattoo of the word “LIFE” across my forehead. Fortunately, I told one of the Old Schools in my pod about my plan and he did exactly what an Old School is supposed to do: put a Youngster in his place. He told me not to act like an idiot even if I was an idiot. He asked me: if I was still free and living amongst society would I still want to get that same tattoo? I had to admit I would not. He then asked me: if I wouldn’t want to get that tattoo out in the so-called free world, why would I want to get it in here? He made a lot of sense and I am grateful not only for his wisdom but also for his willingness to share what he had learned over many decades in prison. This is only one example of an inmate who invested in me.

These are only a few of the many people who have helped to shape and influence my life. I can never fully repay them for all that they have done but I can try to pass on what they have started. I may never have children to raise or be a teacher responsible for molding young minds, but I can be an Old School (albeit an extremely youthful looking one), to other Youngsters who are coming into the system not knowing what they are getting into. I am grateful that I am still able to do that, even after all of my youthful foolishness.