# "Apologies" by Robert Johnson

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z_3g8W_kIvKD-cr51F-Eqk1nE4UFkZOYcxYiR9IIv9s/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Apologies” by Robert Johnson**

I have been incarcerated for a total of 17 years and have not apologized to anyone. This has been weighing on me for some time now, and I am glad this prompt came up. The thing is the one person I need to apologize is to my mother, but she has passed away. If I could apologize, I would tell her that I have not been a good son and I wish I could go back in time and start over again and show her what she really meant to me. I didn't even get to tell her bye, so this is truly hard for me. All of the things I’ve done in the past are mostly due to drug abuse, but there is really no excuse for my behaviour. Mother I am truly sorry.

I have another person that has passed away that I need to apologize to. Ginger was my girlfriend and friend for many years until I messed things up for us. She was the “one” for me, but all of my mistakes and selfishness were too much for her. After I was locked up, there were so many opportunities for me to try and say I was sorry, but all in all I was still selfish and could not bring myself to tell her. I was ashamed of all the things I did and could not do it. In 2012, Ginger passed away from cancer, so I never got to apologize to her either. Because of my insecurities and selfishness I will never get to tell the people who meant the most to me how sorry I am for being such a terrible son and boyfriend. I will have to live with that for the rest of my life.

I do have another girl in my life and I have apologized to her. I have known Tracy for 30 years and we finally reconnected in February of 2017. After all I had gone through with not apologizing to my mother and Ginger, apologize is the first thing I did when I wrote to Tracy. So many years of distrust and jealousy over Tracy was a lot to ask forgiveness for, but the relief I felt after she accepted my apology was both great and heartbreaking, because of it reminded me that I didn’t apologize to mother and Ginger. I had a lot more to apologize to Tracy or than bother Ginger and mother. So many years between us, things are still unsaid and I need to get to it and tell her everything that I have done. I just pray she will forgive all of it.

I know I will never understand to the same magnitude as these three will, but there are people that I would like to have an apology from. When I got to Broad River I immediately worked in the chapel because of my graduating CIU (Columbia International University). After giving three years of my life to that chapel, basically running the place, I decided to transfer jobs and go to the Crisis Unit, knowing that I was going to still work at the chapel also. As I was leaving my unit to go to my new living quarters a certain Lt. on the yard stopped me. She did not like the fact that I was going to the Crisis Unit to work and live and made me go back to the chapel to get shook down (searched), where they found some toothpaste and envelopes. The thing is the chaplain gave all of that stuff to me, but he did nothing to help me at all. So, I was stopped from going to the crisis unit to work and live, I ended up in the medial dorm and had to endure months of “rumor mill”. I mean there was everything from I had porn to kiddy porn in the chapel. Of course I did not have everything like that, there was not even an incident export done.

The apology that I seek is from the chaplain. If he would have done the right thing, I would have been working and living in the crisis unit now. I feel my life would be better if I had not been singled out, but because the chaplain did not admit that he gave me the things that I had, it did not workout that way. All in all things have worked out for me; I have a good job in the maintenance department and ironically I am back in the character unit. To me it proves that I really did nothing wrong. The only thing that really bothers me about the whole ordeal now is that I do not feel comfortable going back to the chapel for worship or any bible studies, I am still in fellowship with God and that is all that really matters.