# "Apology" by Christopher Nelson

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FN98BXZg1vCPzwwAFKUf5-Kur3ZRb16TcdSUCFdvI4Q/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Apology” by Christopher Nelson**

Simple excuses for clueless individuals to lose with -apologies- no pun intended, but wear it if the shoe fits. If not, then lose it, choosing the best way to clean up the mess you made without looking stupid is to simply use this… -apology- whether today or yesterday, coincidental or intentional, it’s a continual usage of a term that no longer possesses it’s true meaning with potential. You’ve seen it work for so long, I’ve seen it work and so wrong. At group meetings and family gatherings, that’s two reasons to stand and be a man about it. But I can see… the escape from the mistakes with -apologies- and without it, you can seem abandoned and doubted. Chanting it and shouting it while in danger if standing and crowded by strangers, leaving the answers invalid and painting a picture so amazing right or wrong will go right along with the ideology of (my bads and sorrys) -apologies- that sound so sad it bothers me. Starting deep from my adolescent thoughts of when my father leaves… Promised me and swore to God he was coming back probably… not a thing for him to come to me with a bunch of these… -apologies- Different words, same meaning. Live and learning ain’t easy when you’re conscious of vindicated intelligence. The congruent equivalence of words versus the things that never did. Never have and never will. Give or take nothing but the truth. Better them than you. They say sorry, I’m not sorry, evident excuse. Excuse my manners, I have none. Apology not accepted, I am numb… I have come to refute the meaning, rebuke title, reason to use a deceiving -apology- should I begin with my 1st love. I am my worst judge. Honestly, I respect every woman but not everyone is worth love. Because loved ones transpire into love nones. What’s won in the end besides a shattered emotional trustfund, hard feelings and what’s wrongs and a chip on my shoulder that’s tempted to get brushed on by -apologies- That’s not a word you hear anywhere after or near fantastic. Usually when something bad happens. Like sorry for your loss and I’ve lost everything. Pardon my harsh thoughts on… “You know” -apologies- you grow… Tired of these when the boy cried wolf everyday and Cinderella loses the slipper to her foot and never changes. I was told every dog has its day and “Yee Doggy” if I forever accept -apologies- I will forever pay… The irony of better days being behind me like cops in a rare escape… The sad part is they always find me, surround me and just like the effects of a rehearsed -apology- down me! My 9th grade principal told me I would make a special woman lucky some day and I fell for it and failed short of my goal when I took my shot and fell forward. Well I’m sure my principle wasn’t that lucky woman because I got expelled for it. Maybe I was dumb as a doorknob on a nailed door. I’m sure not… But that’s my opinion. I was stingy as a child when they advised me to share toys and that's why I didn’t. I owned my miscues and accepted the consequences with the rewards. And guess what I didn’t… -apologize- or say sorry guys or I won’t do it again because I would. I would do it to friends and other kids (you get my point on that). Don’t point the finger because 3 of yours will be pointing back. Unapologetic to the Golden Rule, no one used an apology as a regret for a wrong. When in debt for a loan to buy time and turn a yes to a no. Yet I was shown that apologies are formal justifications. Just in case you can’t cover up the naked truth. That’s just the replacement modified into a dramatized fiction. So why do I always listen when she kisses me then - apologize-?