# "Argument" by Tony Baldwin

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1B8_dmRb9WwTN31NBZ7Dyrbd97rnU2yYceMS4UY9wjws/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**Argument by Tony Baldwin**

Argument, that word can have so many different experiences. Some positive, some negative. My argumentative experience is unfortunately a negative one.

Sometime in late 2001, while having to deal with a traumatic separation from my wife of 10 years and mother of my daughters and a rampant drug addiction to meth. I found myself in a bitter argument from the one source that was completely unexpected, my family, specifically my older cousin Garnett. Now you have to understand how my family is, very close and supportive.

Now my wife and I were renting a 2BD cottage on the family compound in Scotts Valley. Now with our separation and the underlying case of it, I didn’t want to be around her, nor seeing her, and I took off and disappeared for a few weeks, decompressing with my friends and eventually started a relationship with a friend of one of my friends and hit it off. I received a call from my cousin to let me know that my wife had taken the girls to her parents, and all I felt was relief that she was gone. I invited my new girl to come with me as I gathered some clothes and various lil toys of mine. We pull into the driveway at around 10pm and by the time I was done it was after and everybody knows you don’t drive between midnight and 4:30AM in Scotts Valley or you will get pulled over so we decide to spend the night and leave in the morning. We crashed on the couch and I guess I really needed sleep cause we both slept through the alarm and I was woken up by keys unlocking the front door. I don’t know if it's my wife, who would want to fight my girl so I rush out of the bedroom and see that it’s only my cousin Garnett. I opened the door and I startled her. We both greet each other and then she starts asking a bunch of questions and I start to feel defensive. Most of my family blames me for my marriage falling apart and my family adored my wife. A lot of ways, their right. What she did was so hurtful and the betrayal so deep that I was unable to forgive. God knows I tried for a year but finally called it dead and walked away. So being on the defensive about my wife I didn’t think it was a good idea to announce my companion. Unfortunately she just had to wake up right then and when my cousin heard her calling for me my cousin got upset. Upset that I tried to keep it from her but mostly that I’d bring another woman into my family’s house. We started to argue, my point being the marriage is dead and gone and everybody needed to accept that. THat my wife is miles away at her parents and I paid just as much, if not more then she did and I was entitled to be there. She disagreed and in tears told me to leave the property and don’t come back. I couldn’t believe my ears. My cousin and also friend wanted me out of her life and it stung really bad. So I did what any immature man would do, packed up everything I’d ever bought. Electronics, dishes, furniture, hell even the toilet paper and loaded up my trucks walked over to her and looked her dead in the eye and told her “your wrong for this, but I still love you” and drove away and didn’t talk to her for the next 8 years.

It hurt being pushed away by the very people who mean everything to me and she hurt my feelings and when my feelings get hurt I get very immature and that make our strongest family trait stubbornness and bullheadedness 10 times worse and even though I would drive past the property I’d be damned if I’d make the first gesture of reconciliation, and family after 8 years of my mom listening to me complaining about her she decided enough was enough and set me up to unknowingly be in the same house together. It’s very hard for me to stay angry with the people I love who make an effort and so we started talking and we aired out our grievances and she explained that she only wanted a better life for me then spunspircies and meth monsters, arrest and prison and was trying tough love. I then explained to her that tough love doesn’t work for me and all she did was deprive me of a cherished friend and one of only two closest, trusted family (her and my mom). If she could just accept me for who I am, as I am, I would never argue. She said done and we hugged and over the years we’ve become even closer and I trust her with my life and would do anything to help her. Families fight and even feud, but the strong ones make amends and become even stronger.