# "Believe It Or Not" by Raymond Springs II

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y_RAFN7NjfhhVj9eIQbhR9U70zmigQC9K6gycoFGxlc/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**Believe It Or Not by Raymond Springs II**

Believe It Or Not, is a certain phrase that I’ve been hearing most of my life. In the 1980s I believe it was the name of a popular sitcom or at least words sung in on of their theme songs.

Either way this catch phrase has a much deeper meaning for me now that it’s connected to this theme writing program done by the student at Cornell University. See what I am about to share is an emotional but true story about a tragedy that eternally painted my reality darker.

Readers you can believe what you are about to read or not. If you are a student at Cornell University you can verify the facts easy enough. This I’m sure of. Well the events I’m sharing took place in South East San Diego’s notorious most dangerous street. “Ozark” in 1993 or 1994. The reason why it is hard to remember perfectly, is because at the time of these terrible events I was a teenaged shirm head/Lincoln Park Blood Gang Banger.

One night in early June my father and stepmother Stephanie, were fighting physically at our house on Trinidad Way, which is situated in an urban neighborhood surrounded by palm trees, canyonds between streets and also in the middle of adjoining backyards. This particular evening it was warm and breezy, when my father told me to go sit in his old Chevy Van I was annoyed with all of their fighting and responsibility shirking. Board with sitting in the van’s seat, I turned around and began to climb into the back area so that I could lay down and nap until my father war ready to leave or have me come back into the house. Supremely unexpected was the snub nosed 38 caliber, the thirty odd six deer rifle with single bolt action, and the several boxes of each guns ammo. My heart was beating harder than African Congo drums, and I had grabbed the 38 cal and got out the van before I could even think about the consequences of my actions. I was scared to death because I had stolen one of my fathers weapons, so I ran into the canyon almost directly across my street where Trinidad Way and Santa Maria fork in the road. By the time I entered the Canyon I had a plan of what I was going to do: first I’d go hand out on Ozark, learn to shoot the pistol in the canyon between the bottom of Ozark and the neighborhood 47 crips. I would spend the night at my big homie Cappie’s apartment on Gloria. The next morning which was Saturday I’d go catch the number 55 bus at Euclid Trolly going to El Cajon Blvd., where I get off and catch the number 15 or 115 bus east going towards 67th Street where I’d hold up a music trader because I knew that it dealt with lots of cash regularly.

Instead I ran inside the canyon to the end of my block crossed Euclid into another canyong that I exited on the dead end of Ocean View. Walking past the bottom of Ozark on the other side of Imperial Avenue from my usual hanging, banigng and slanging area which was in the view of the fire station. I looked up and seen my relatives car it was a gray older model Ford with dark tinted windows. As I got closer I noticed he was leaning up against it. While speaking to a pretty girl. Once I was right in front of him I shook his hand and said, “What are you doing over here relative?” He answered; “Over here at a graduation party before I leave to college tomorrow morning.” I asked him what college he was going to? He told me; Cornell University in New York, he told me he was going to be a surgent one day and he’d be the first balck brain surgent with a tattoo on his scalp which he planned to get once he made it. He asked me if I wanted to go inside the party, which I declined due to the fact I was carrying a pistol plus I was not dressed good enough for his crowd (Nerdy Jocks and Mack Players)

So I began walking up to the top of Ozark and when I reached Holy Street I made a detour over to my homegirl Jackie’s house, we talked on her back porch for hours. I showed her the 38 cal which I then noticed had some kind of lock on the trigger area that I didn’t have keys for. After we scammed, I went to the Zark, looking for some homies and a smoker who knew how to take off the lock. Instead I found Daina, a grown sexy older homegirl who had a reputation of robbing swauvy’s (sailors) she got me drunk off some rum and coke they gave me some taco shop money and told me to go home after I got a bit in my stomach. She said be careful walking home because in the summer it’s killing season when anyone gets caught slipping, they’re ah gonnah. Well instead of spending the doe on carne asada fries I kept it for the bus fare I’d need the next morning. I left Ozard on my way to Big Cappies apartment on Gloria Street. Which is a short yet dangerous walk due to being completely exposed the whole way there. I arrived there tired and hungry. Cappie let me in and I let him know what was up. He asked me for the pistol to hold until I was ready to leave in the morning once I gave’em the pistol he handed me two blankets and a comforter plus four microwave burritos. I ate and passed out. Waken up around 9:40 that Saturday morning to rasta music and weed smoke densely in the air. Cappie said “Here hit the irie then eat the pancakes and eggs I just fixed because I got some things to do.” After smoking the Dunker weed Cappies was always having I cleaned up myself in his restroom, grabbed the pancakes and eggs and poured a healthy amount of syrup on them both situated on a paper plate, then asked for the pistol back on my way out the front door which he gave to me and asked me if I wanted to be dropped off anywhere? I replied yes, the Euclid Trolley station. Once he dropped me off, I was waiting for a bus that is when I was approached by this dude I went to school with, he was a pretty boy and I didn’t like him even though he’d never did anything wrong to me. His name is Jay R. Jay R said: “did you hear what happened last night? Someone shot and killed a wrestler who just graduated from Lincoln Prep High School at some party?” I asked him, “What was the boy’s name who got killed?” Jay R said “I believe it was Willie” I could not process anything else. So I ran the phone bank, picked up a phone pai and started dialing my mother’s number. When she answered her receiver crying, I knew my hero and relative Willie James Jones Jr. had been murdered at the party I had seen him at the night before ‘believe it or not.’

In the many years since Ozark Street was renamed Willie James Jones Blvd. in his honor, a wrestling tournament is named in his honor, a POTUS collected shoes in his honor, a scholarship is given in his honor and Cornell University graduated him honorarily. So when I write to your essay writing program and know at least one student will read it, I know my relative is also reading it through each and everyone of you. Because your programs are his way of telling me “reli I caught the flight and made it and I want to hear from you” Believe it OR NOT!

Rest in Peace Willie James Jones Jr. 1975-1993 ?