# "Believe It or Not" by Walter Hart

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mVf9O75-lQGfkxqtnNBT2xkoz3U3PUiPYRkE3nHjVgc/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**"Believe It or Not" by Walter Hart**

On a bus ride to New Orleans...through California, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, and then Louisiana, the bus driver made an unexpected stop in an odd little town in New Mexico.

And while other passengers flocked to a souvenir stand, a curbside diner, a donut stand, and a gas station restroom, I was drawn to an old lady, a very old lady who looked to be a hundred years old and sat in an old rickety chair with a blanket draped over her legs even thought the sun blared brightly in the mid morning heat...it had to be 90 degrees. The blanket and chair both looked handmade, a mangy dog lay at her side an in front of her was a crocheted colorful blanket with an array of small souvenirs and artifacts that she hoped to sell.

I looked down at her collection, seeing nothing that I was interested in buying, until I spotted a small wooden box. I reached down and picked it up. It was heavily shellacked wood, carved to perfection. I opened it and there lay a very thin and delicate gold chain with a small pendant on it that was carved in the shape of feather, it appeared to be wood...I touched the feather and realized then that it wasn't wooden at all...it was somehow real...like no other feather I had ever seen, maybe from a baby penguin or an ostrich, maybe even a now extinct dodo bird...it was soft as velvet, brown as wood, and the touch of it sent an electric shock or charge through me...I snatched my hand back and stared at the old woman as if for the first time...I looked deeply into her almost "too clear" eyes, and what I saw there was eternity...the universe, stars, galaxies, history, the future, kindness and rage...night and day, life and death...and then I saw people and serenity...I forced myself to look away from her...I looked back down at the small box and asked "How much?". The old lady smiled, revealing yellowed tobacco stained teeth…"Nobody ever buys from me...thank you kind sir...whatever you give will be fine, I am an old widow and anything you give will be a blessing". I listened for an accent, trying to figure out her nationality, maybe Native American or Hispanic, possibly White, mixed with African American, maybe a combination of all four, or none of them at all...she continued, now in a very soft voice, "The pendent is special"...

I didn't have much cash on me, I had $136.00 to be exact...I gave her the one thirty and kept six dollars for myself. Her eyes lit up as the money touched her palm and she thanked me over and over for my generous gesture…

I put the tiny chain around my neck and again she smiled...she reached out an old wrinkled vein streaked hand to me which i softly took into mines. Again I felt a surge of electricity go through me...she looked into my eyes and softly said, "You are gonna be a very lucky man". I nodded understanding and headed to the mini mart that was connected to the gas station...I stepped in, went to the counter and purchased one Mega Million Jackpot lottery ticket just in case the lady was right. I stuck it into my wallet then went to the small cafe across the street where a few of the passengers were already exiting.

I ordered a hamburger special, it said $3.29 and consisted of a burger, fries, and coke...it arrived faster than expected...I looked at the paintings and pictures that covered the walls of the smaller diner and saw that they were all U.F.O themed and I realised I was in Roswell…

I sat at the counter and enjoyed my lunch. It was now 12:20 PM and the day was turning out to be a scorcher...after eating I headed back to the bus realizing that I was the last to get on, by the looks of scorn from other restless passengers who were ready to continue on with their journey.

I was currently unemployed, in debt, freshly divorced paying child support for a 12 year old girl and a 8 year old boy, my savings were at an all time low, but still for some reason, I felt at peace. I still had to ride through Texas, then into Louisiana, to New Orleans then up to my destination which was Shreveport, Louisiana where my aging uncle and aunt lived on our family's 24 acre old decrepit farm, with most of the 24 acres being swampland...it boasted 2 horses, 2 cows, 9 pigs, about 100 chickens, a small orchard of peach and plum trees, a strawberry patch, a cornfield and a garden of lettuce collard greens, mustard greens, turnip greens, carrots, string beans, onions and potatoes…

They could no longer afford to hire help, so I had volunteered to come and visit and do the repair work on the fences, pens, coops, and everything else that was falling apart or falling down…

The bus rolled smoothly and its air conditioner held up nicely as the sun, now in full bloom assaulted the day. We reached a Texas town hours later and that is when all hell broke loose…

As we got out to stretch and patronize a subway restaurant, a Krispy Kreme donut stand and a mini mart we heard gunshots...much too many gunshots...and much too closely for comfort...many ran back into the bus, while I stood frozen like a deer in the headlights, trying to see who was doing the shooting and who they were shooting at...why? I don't know, it was not my business...was I trying to be a star witness? Of course not...Was i trying to get shot? No way, but still I stood there...the next thing I saw took my breath away, I saw an all black S.U.V full of men barreling down the road towards us, and at the same time, a small girl, who looked to be around 8 years old stood from behind one of the mini mart's trash cans and attempted to run into the Krispy Kreme donut stand where her mom and lil brother were...now, don't get to thinking that she had a bad or neglectful mom, because she didn't...her mom had happened to be carrying her lil brother when the shooting started, and instinctively ran into the bakery for cover...knowing, hoping and praying that her daughter was close on her heels...she was wrong. Her daughter had chosen to duck behind a trash can and had a stray bullet come that way, the plastic trash can couldn't of been any help or protection and now that the shooting had temporarily stopped, she felt it was her chance to make a dash for the donut stand, but fate had other plans and the SUV, slammed into the girl, knocking her about 20 feet where she slid into a gas pump and crumbled there unconscious, the truck never stopped, but instead it sped away with another car which looked to be a Crown Victoria which were commonly used by DEA agents on or around the border, close behind it, in a cops and robbers good chasing evil kinda display… the shoot out appeared to be over, but so did the life of the little girl. I was a first responder, the first person to reach her, since I had been the only one standing and watching hte tragedy transpire first hand...the first thing I noticed was her shin bone broken and sharp and sticking out of the skin of her leg...then I noticed blood coming out of her nose and mouth, maybe indicating internal bleeding...I stooped down next to her crumbled body, and saw how her neck protruded from her body. It was broken...and I somehow knew that there would be no more birthdays and Christmas mornings in her future. I subconsciously touched the pendant around my neck and thought about all of the good luck I somehow knew it would bring me...a new home, debt paid off, possibly get my wife and family back, a new job, a good one, a new car and so many other good and lucky things that life and the pendant could and would bring me...then I looked at the little girl and instinctively knew what I had to do...now I knew why I purchased the pendant, it was for this precise moment in time...I gently tugged at the thin chain and it easily broke and dropped into my hand...I then gently put it into the little girl's hand and closed her little fingers around it. I closed my eyes as if to say a silent prayer. But as I held the little girl's hand, images appeared in my mind as if they were a motion picture...images of the little girl playing and laughing, holding up a high school diploma, then going to college...she wanted to be a doctor...I saw her in medical school studying and living and thriving, then I could feel her little hand move inside of mines...I opened my eyes and saw her looking at me...the blood that had been pouring out of her nose and mouth was now dry and resembled coffee, a bulge no longer protruded from her neck, I glanced down at her leg...it was as smooth as the day she was born...a bone no longer poked out of her skin…

I guess while I was taking a guided tour of her life, she was taking one of mines. She whispered, "Thank you sir, I know what you did!!!". Her mother and then many others ran over to where she lay, she slowly sat up...she was fine...she opened her and and the chain was still there, but the leaf was now a fine brown powder in the palm of her hand...I had given her my luck, my chance at redemption, finally being rich, a man of means, financially secure...but you know what? I felt that allowing that beautiful innocent little girl to die, for the sake of some money? Was not an option...sometimes the heart overrides the mind on matters of importance, and this was one time I was glad that I did…

Nobody knew how close that little girl was to death other than me and her and God, and whatever power it was that had manifested itself in the leaf...but still I could hear murmurs of how it was a "miracle" as I headed back to the bus…

We continued on our journey, I got off of that particular bus in Louisiana, no doubt I would never see that beneficiary of my good luck ever again...and would lose no sleep over what took place that eventful midmorning in New Mexico and Texas.

I took another bus up through Louisiana, New Orleans, Baton Rouge, Lafayette and eventually Shreveport, made it to my family's farm, helped fixed the place up, never even mentioned what had happened, I don't think nobody would've believed it no way…

And then on the morning I had planned to leave my uncle and aunt and go back to California, about $1,000 richer… I sat in the living room watching a morning news show, and one of the anchors was talking about the one lucky winner of the Mega Millions Jackpot and how no one still hadn't called in or went in to claim their prize...I knew then that I coulda been that person once upon a time, but what I chose to do was worth more to me than that winning ticket...seriously, I meant that...the girl I saved would become a doctor and no telling how many lives would be saved by her hands…

The news anchor continued on saying that the sole winner had purchased the ticket at a Valero mini mart in New Mexico about a month prior to that day...well, I had been at the farm for about a month...then I remembered...aw hell no...it couldn't be...I went for my wallet and rummaged through it finding the ticket I had purchase that day, $326 million? Ain't that much luck in the planet...and as the news anchor read off the winning numbers I smiled from ear to ear...I had won the lotto…

So what i the moral to the story? We oftentimes ignore or dismiss old people or those who appear down on their luck, homeless...and instead we focus on the new shiny things and places and people...and we put too much emphasis on material things, instead of what's truly the most fragile tangible and important thing on this planet...LIFE...and when you do the right thing, it'll always come back to you, that's how the universe works...Believe it or not!