# "Blink of an Eye" by Moses Valdez

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U-zFLtP9-mcEQBszySOJpjLrFaDzHouoyGu6sF1KBhU/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“The Blink of An Eye” by Moses Valdez**

Anabel had a peculiar problem. She couldn’t blink. Not as a disability but because everytime she did she’d jump into the future. There was no set amount of time that would pass. The first time it happened she was 16, still in high school. She dropped a quarter down a wishing well and wished she’d be grown and far from the home of her parents. For her, being home was torture. Her parents, always complaining about this and that. If only she could manage until graduation. She knew her future to be bright. She turned to walk away and felt the atmosphere stir. She blinked and she was no longer at the well but at her graduation. She blinked again in shock. When her eyes opened she was staring at her pregnant belly in a full-length mirror. She yelped and blinked and found herself in pain on a hospital bed having a baby boy. Pushing, she screamed and blinked and opened her eyes to a ten month old baby asleep in a crib. The love and adoration she felt was overwhelming. A tear formed in the corner of her eye and she blinked it away. Just like that the moment was lost. Opening her eyes, she watched an eight year old boy she assumed to be her son, playing on the slide. The love was there but she couldn’t remember him aging. Her last memory was a ten month old baby. It isn’t possible. A sad tear trailed down her cheek, she blinked and she was in a different place. It was her son’s first day of high school. She was standing at the window watching him walk towards the school bus. She tried to recall anything besides the vague memories that seemed like yesterday. In all she blinked eight times before realizing what was happening. And then again when she could no longer force her eyes to stay open. In the beginning she could only keep her eyes open for a few hours at a time. Each blink took years away from her and her family and friends. Everybody got older and she had no memory of any of it. One blink she was getting married, in the next it was her son replacing her. One blink she was a beautiful, young bride, the next she was getting married, in the next it was her son replacing her. One blink she was a beautiful, young bride, the next she was old and weary. She couldn’t recall anything more than bits and pieces that didn’t add up to a full life lived. It seemed like yesterday that she wished she could be far from her parents. A moment later and both of her parents were sick. The next blink and they’d both be beyond her reach forever. She had to make this moment last as long as possible. It would be the only memory of her parents besides wishing she was away from them. So she couldn’t blink. She was going on a week and her bloodshot eyes had long ago dried out. She stood at the foot of the bed, wishing she could go back in time. She would cherish her parents, her son, her life. A tear began to form in the corner of her eye. Unable to blink it away, she allowed it to fall as she pondered how fast life passed by.