# "Blink of an Eye" by Jim Bauhaus

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sMzGd4mFUhgQ7XDWStvuWaQOswZco6SldQ8jnZuILoI/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Blink of an Eye!” by Jim Bauhaus**

I must have blinked my eye to miss the compliment I got in Catherine Le Fleur’s “How not to Burn.” Thankfully, I caught it this second time around. What a nice lady. It’s nice to get feedback. She liked my biker stories. I should try more of this type of humanistic writing and perhaps give people a break from my trying to change the world. Thank you, Catherine. As soon as I am lucky enough to get anything from Gary, I search through it quickly, scanning for two things: first, I’m looking for my own name, since I’m a bit of a narcissist, like most people. I correct any typos, then send it off to be scanned onto my site, jamesbauhaus.org. The second thing I’m looking for in my prisoners’ express is anything written by Ms. Le Fleur. I hope no one of our writers takes my opinion here as denigrating their own work: she’s just better, and the rest of you need to catch up or try harder. I’ve thought this ever since I read her “Mister Sticker” situation with the problem guard. It was so good, I saw it published twice.

This hits home with my lately because I’ve been warring with these Kops over sex assault for about four years. I probably wrote about my trying to prevent Kops from using phony body searches for revenge: A big German Lesbian chose me for a food-search after coming out of the messhall. This time, she was only doing her job. I had nothing against her. The Kops were trying to stop the Jewish and Muslim inmates from selling their food in the cage stacks. But I’m areligious, and I am an innocent lifer. I don’t deserve any of this. I don’t steal food out of the mess hall. It makes me angry for someone to tell me, “You! Up against the wall!” My plan unfolded. I told her, “You’re not going to sexually molest me just because you want to see if I have food. I will disrobe for a visual inspection.” This made the Kops’ heads explode with rage. They attacked. I wrote the FBI. The most sadistic one got transferred to the graveyard shift, where he had fewer opportunities to torture people after they have submitted to being hogtied. A week later, he heckled and threatened me. I wrote the FBI against. Shortly thereafter, he quit.

Next, a Kop came by one morning and wanted to make the center of her existence a piece of paper stuck in my door jam to keep the freezing AC wind from blowing it open, which let the Kops’ megaphone, electronic torture noises flood in. She yanked the door open and began shrieking, “What is this doing there!” As if she didn’t already know. The deaf guy I lived with acted equally ignorant, yelling “Huh? What? You have to speak up! I’m deaf!” This made her head explode with rage, being powerless to get sense out of a deaf guy who was overshouting her shrieks. So she drags me into it, hiding under my headphones, pretending to enjoy the TV news. She could have just scribbled out of a sanction and left. All write-ups result in conviction and sanction. Instead, she decided on further mindless harassment.

Unable to suffer fools, I got sarcastic and just as loud and rude, ridiculing the importance of her mission. She retaliated by tearing up our cage, stealing some small items and having her flunkie grope us in a phony search. Lastly, after having awakened everyone in the mini prison with her commotion, she tried to instigate the inmates into injuring or killing me by shouting, “I’ll bet you’re one of those child molesters!”

For 14 months now, I’ve been wrestling with the GEO Corp-Kops and DOC Kops to get this woman reprimanded. They deny everything and refuse to slap her wrist, saying my complaint is “unsubstantiated” and therefore dismissed. I couldn’t make them agree that phony “security” body-grope searches are sometimes actually sexual molestation. Not even when the Kop tries to pin child molestation on you in a deliberate attempt to get you killed or maimed. I did this under the new Prison Rape Elimination Act. This is a law which captives are finally forced upon the Kops. It makes them pretend to investigate sex assaults. I tried to stretch it to cover Kops molesting helpless captives. So far, my tactic seems to have failed. Even so, GEO-Corp just got audited by “outsiders'' to check for compliance. I got to re-open the case. The closet psychopath who would like to get me killed still works here even though I’ve not seen her since she, also, heckled me a week after her histrionics. They’ve managed to keep her name concealed, too. (The Kops hide their ID cards.) But PREA investigators could still get her wrist slapped in the blink of an eye. If not, there is still the FBI.