# "Bon Appetit" by Bobby Bunderson

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 09 - September
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/10YLKEknMAbBNfhQZvYpDxjEqzxRJx7c1ndc296khGOg/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2015

**"Bon Appetit" by Bobby Bunderson**

I am skeptical concerning the belief that breakfast is the most important meal of the day. What I am sure of is that breakfast has always been my most anticipated meal. From the moment we are born, we were either bottle-fed or breastfed. I was the latter, a fact that my dear mother (rest her soul) never let me forget. She just loved teasing me in front of my girlfriends about my time on the “boob.” It wasn't enough telling them how I wasn't “weaned” as soon as most kids my age were; oh no, not my mom. she would also share with them how I used to chase her around when I was hungry yelling: “Num-num momma, num-num!” Mortifying…

Baby food in a jar was fun. I loved the fruits and vegetables but would get all “squinchy” faced when my mom would try and sneak a little pureed meat under my favorite banana treat. From baby food I went on to graduate into the wonderful world of dried boxed cereals. wonderfully delicious! I began with cornflakes and cheerios. of course the best of eating cornflakes was the diced strawberries my mother always provided and the half cup of sugar which i provided. After the cereal was gone, I always looked forward to the sickly sweet milky-syrup at the bottom of the bowl. Tony the Tiger was right: “They’re Grr-eat!” After eating hundreds of boxes of Cornflakes and Cheerios, I discovered newer, even better brands. The pre-sweetened cereals began taking over the shelf space in all of the local markets. Applejacks, Fruitloops, Lucky Charms, Trix, and Captain Crunch became my breakfast staple. There were so many to choose from that I began mixing a little of each calling it my “suicide cereal.”

In the mid to late 1960s my cousin (and best friend) Brian became addicted to a brand new television show called “Dark Shadows.” A spooky cliff-hanger featuring Barnabas Collins as the vampire and a host of other ghouls such as: the werewolf and a couple of Frankenstein-ish creatures aptly named: “Adam and Eve.” Now you may be wondering what a television show has to do with breakfast cereals. Well nothing, yet everything. Some clever advertisers and marketers invented a new pair of dry cereals: “Frankenberry” and “Count-Chocula.” A happy accident? Doubtful. Brian and I had died and went to pre-sweetened cereal heaven.

My Aunt Jean and Uncle Delmar used to own their own diner. After they had decided to sell it, they kept a lot of the equipment and furnishings. Their pride and joy was the long, curved plastic covered “nook” which had been in the corner of the diner. It was huge and easily sat 7-8 kids. Every weekend, my brother Travis and I ate brunch with our three cousins. This was no ordinary brunch. It was however extraordinary! My mother and aunt had been raised in rural Missouri, and let me tell you, “hot damned, them country girls sure knew how to cook!” They could make everything including mighty fine vittles, slabs of bacon, plates of chicken fried steak, mountains of freshly baked buttermilk biscuits, oceans of country style gravy, a basket filled with assorted sliced fruits, stacks of flapjacks, waffles, and butter toast generously slathered in homemade jams, jellies, marmalades, and apple butter. There were glass bottles of cold whole milk delivered daily by the milkman, pitchers of freshly squeezed orange juice and a big metal pot filled with aromatic coffee for the adults. Truly a feast fit for kings. Regardless how fantastic those brunches were, Brian and I always looked forward to the weekdays so that we could devour our beloved cereals.

Breakfast changed for me dramatically as I entered adulthood. I made my living as a baker/pastry chef. Many of my jobs required that I work the “graveyard” shift. Getting off work at 7:00, I rarely felt like eating breakfast. In those days breakfast consisted of a couple of “slim-jims” and a six-pack. I still ate plenty of boxed cereal (mainly Captain Crunch with Crunchberries) but saved them for when I got the munchies.

After the birth of my daughter Kriste, I too fed her pre-sweetened cereal. She preferred “Kix”, dry, right out of the box. In 1987, my wife and I “separated.” She remained in Seattle and I ventured off to my mother’s house in Illinois. It was there in the small hamlet of Sauk Village that breakfast took on a whole new meaning for me. The women of Sauk Village, single or “not-that-married,” all hung out at the two watering holes located on each end of the village, the “Upfront” and “Casey’s Tavern.” Newly single and from the west coast, the pickings were easy. It reminded me of fishing for salmon in the Snohomish River during spawning season. I am not the stereotypical guy who after “hooking-up” impatiently awaits his newest conquest to leave. I’ve personally never understood that. In my mind, it makes much more sense to “snuggle” afterwards and then invite her to a hot, soapy bubble bath. Look, if a gal goes home with you and the two of you hook-up, treat her good. Not like a whore or a hood-rat. Snuggle, bathe her, give her a massage and then try and talk her into spending the night? If you can rock like that, I guarantee she’ll rock you back in the morning and, if she’s good, invite her back! How does one coax a girl to stay the night? Offer a her a fine breakfast cuisine in the morning. Trust me, it works. My specialty is either eggs benedict or New York strip steak, broiled with chili and cheese topping. But, beware! If you are not seeking a long-term relationship, LET HER KNOW! IF not, you may have laid the ground-work for a Fatal Attraction. Suggest being friends with benefits.

Today, I am 54 years old. Memories of all of those different “styles” of having breakfast live in a warm place in my heart. Now every morning I wake up at 6:00 am, walk outdoors for 100 yards or so, wait in a long-line of 200 hungry prisoners, and then gratefully “catch” my plastic tray which had been flung uncaringly out of the 18” square hole in the wall. The food is always the same and always disappointing. Powdered eggs, nonfat milk, Frisbee-like waffles and pancakes, mystery meat sausage patties, soy creamed beef, and dry coffee cake. Choke it all down with a cup of scalding hot watered down coffee and voila! Breakfast! Still sound like the most important meal of the day? If so, Bon Appetit!