# Brian Lowe

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PQImvBGcr-1aN70s6fO4cw7sM5sfCW9cTFFT46lXSjY/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by Brian Lowe**

My family got by, but we were not rich by any means. My dad worked all the time driving a truck for the local feed mill, and anything I could come up with would work in my favor. My dad got me to work out on Mrs. Holland’s farm.

Eager for some spending money of my own, I quickly agreed to do the job, not realizing what I got myself into. Here I was, wise to the world in my own 11 year old way, soon to be educated on the reality of labor.

Hoeing cotton is simple. Using a hoe, you remove all plants that are not cotton from around the plants and in the row. These plants are generally referred to as weeds, regardless of what they are. Weeds are removed because they use up resources such as water and nutrients from the soil that the cotton needs. Also, they could interfere with harvesting the cotton. And on the Staked Plains of the Texas Panhandle, water is gold, not to ever be wasted.

So as I was saying, hoeing cotton is easy. Doing it all day without gloves, a hat, and a sack lunch is pure torture. About 30 minutes in, my hands were a mess. Blisters on top of blisters. After a couple more hours, I couldn’t touch my own ears, neck, or face. Sunburn blisters are more painful than work blisters.

When lunch time rolled around, I was starving because I didn’t realize I had to bring my own lunch. It was going to be a long day and most likely, not any better.

I toughed out the day and waited for my dad to pick me up. My back was so sore that I could barely move, and I was covered with a sunburn so bad that I looked like a crocodile with red scales. When my dad pulled up, I jumped in, and between laughs, he asked me if I had a good day and if I would go back to work the next day. I told him yes on both accounts.

After that, my dad showed me a few ways to work smarter, not harder, and he got me the things I needed to continue the job. Once I adjusted to the heat and sun, my first job was indeed a simple job.