# by Vicki Hicks

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V3orwWZOKmqqxiYKv8u2nRv3qbCs_mrDYrffRlUcJzo/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

October 24, 1992

Vicki Hicks

A beautiful day to have a wedding. The groom is nervously standing at the altar, awaiting his beautiful bride. She is nowhere to be found. The limo packed with four bridesmaids, a flower girl, the maid of honor, and the bride is missing in action. The groom tries to call his bride-no answer. A half hour later, the limo shows up and at last, the ceremony is under way. Finally make it to the reception to their anxious guests. When all of the traditional wedding reception rituals are over and the bride and groom are making their exit, they are showered with bird seed, yes back then, you threw bird seed not blow bubbles. They go upstairs where their wedding night suite awaits them. My husband helps me out of my veil, about a hundred bobby pins later and dress. I have that special wedding night lingerie packed and waiting. But wait, where is my suitcase? My husband was supposed to have it in our car. Well he did, but my mother drove our car home since we were leaving on a cruise the next morning. No big deal, I can wear my husband’s tuxedo shirt when room service delivers our late night snack. This is perfect until all of a sudden, believe it or not, the fire alarm is pulled and the hotel has to be evacuated in its entirety. Now what am I going to do? I have very skimpy panties complete with a heart shaped padding containing a disc that when pushed played “The wedding march”, and a tuxedo shirt on. Well, I had to destroy the bed to get the sheets wrapped up in to go outside. Outside, I stayed very close to my husband and in the quiet chaos, we hear “the wedding march” song playing. We looked around to see who it was or where it was coming from. After a very embarrassing moment I told my husband quietly that it was coming from the panties I bought to surprise him and now they will not turn off, so I turned to him and said, “Surprise!”