# "Cavalcade of Proud Moments" by Carl Branson

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 06 - June
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jc2tSrQJLRrU-xZJi1t2myBQH47TdKpAl8hYQKa5jPE/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Cavalcade of Proud Moments by Carl Branson**
Philosophically I find the topic “Accomplishments” an exercise in self-aggrandizement. How do I reveal the various proud moments from my nearly 70 years of life without coming across as an arrogant so-and-so? Avoiding the “you think you’re better/smarter than me” inferences which will no doubt be drawn from what I consider major achievements is all but impossible. For me, it’s not a matter of being better/smarter than anyone else, but a matter of being blessed with parents and teachers who forever challenged me to ‘think outside the box’ and who compelled me to continually expand my horizons of experience. Other environmental factors together with inherent talents certainly played a part in the equation of my life
The first feather in my cap came in the sixth grade when I took first place in the school’s science fair. At 10 years old, I designed and built a three note transistor organ and was able to explain to the judges how the sample could be expanded to a full instrument keyboard. Taking top honors in science fairs continued until my sophomore year in High School.
My Grammar School years of studying electronic circuit design paid dividends during High School. My first job at age 16 was as a radio/T.V. repair technician. It was a time of transition for the home entertainment industry. The traditional vacuum-tube technology was being replaced by the “new-fangled” transistor–both of which I had been “playing with” for the prior 6 years or so.
The apex of my achievements came as I forded the magical age of 30. Again, my study of electronics was at the roof of this proud moment. I designed a specialty application circuit which according to all published texts and comments by engineers with doctorates in electronics claimed was impossible to achieve. The company’s legal department took a full year to process the paperwork for the patent that subsequently was awarded.
Harassment by the infernal revenue service during my 30’s opened the door to a new “hobby” (read:obsession) for me: Leane research and litigation. One court victory resulted in an ego-inflation experience. Here, the attorney brought a garnishment action against me, which the judge just quashed at my request, offered me a job immediately following the hearing resulting in his defeat. Not bad for an electronics specialist lacking formal training in law.
Disruptive as the prison experience has been regarding achieving prior life goals, new horizons for personal gratification have presented themselves. The two most important areas relate to endeavors I would never have considered in the “real world”. The realm of primary importance aros when I was hired as a teacher’s aide in the prison’s education department. Over the roughly 6 years that this assignment lasted I was able to assist dozens of my fellow felons obtaining their state mandated functional literacy certificates and to pass their G.E.D. tests.The second domain is creative writing. This ego-centric obsession began with a prisoner constructed curriculum approved by the education department under the guise of adult enrichment. I was hooked! The unit’s monthly newsletter published a few of my short stories and about two dozen of my poems. Other publication credits include poems appearing in “prison living” and “cell door” magazines as well as “prison express” anthologies.
For this dyed in the wool techno-nerd to make the transition from engineering specialist to author/poet is viewed as an accomplishment equal to obtaining a circuit design patent.
Am I better/smart than anyone else? In those areas my talents and experience have been developed; this might well be a correct conclusion. BUT, and that is a “but” in caps and bold print, I am green with envy of many others I have met whose talents and experience lie in areas I have never had the opportunity to explore.