# "Cave" by Romero Anthony

Last Updated: March 17, 2021 5:53 PM
Month: 12 - December
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bjxDrntFlXV44wokZz_FhJ_lWh4NJWdjcel9GxlTMSg/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**Cave by Romero Anthony**

Some people wonder and think about the dark world of prison. Really I see it as the same thing in the free world. I feel sorry for people who aren’t in prison but yet live in a mental prison. To me that’s scary. I’ve even known some people who wish that they came to prison, to me I rather run towards my problems then run away from them. I really believe we all are living the same conditions, those of us who are experiencing a negative world in your current moment. Those are the ones that I’m talking about, those who live in a dark moment at this moment. They’re times that this lasts for a few days for others it could be years or even decades. It can feel like the walls are closing in on you and like there’s no light to see which way you’re going, like every path you choose is the wrong one. A lot of people just choose a direction and run full throttle only to crash into an immovable wall. Others can’t mentally take it and flip out or break down cause they can’t see what’s ahead of them. So they dissolve and collapse where they stood and scream only for their words to echo and fall on deaf ears. You got some who tread slowly and wish for the best, some make it, others lose patience. You could put in much work in the dark only to realize that you’re making no advancements or that you’re just going in one big circle over and over and over and over again. Things might appear in front of you that aren’t even there. Probably out of desperation you imagined it or probably fell on false hope, but just cause it looked so good even if you lied to yourself. Other times the darkness will whisper comments and or advice, or at least we feel like we heard this. Sometimes it’s not the darkness in front of us, sometimes it’s the darkness that’s locked in our mind that’s playing these tricks on us, just cause we feel we’re too weak to control it. Whatever it is we’ve all been in that dark caveat one point or another, and it’ll probably happen again cause guess what it’s something called *life*. Life is full of ups and downs, but if you stop and think of it all, ups and downs are challenges that will strengthen us at the end if you take the time to solve and learn from each one you encounter. Some may advance further, others you overcome. We really got the answers to our own problems, but alot of us like to be in denial so we’ll ask for others' advice about a current predicament. Even if they give us the wrong answers to every question we get, a lot of us accept it as truth. How is it we fail to trust ourselves when no one will look out for you like you will. There are many reasons why we would rather stay in our dark cave. The mind feels the right answers come too easily and it doesn't get any satisfaction, nor any sense of accomplishment to be proud of. So we go through a long process of trials and errors until we arrive at the obvious answers and feel proud that we made it this far. For others, their friends really hold control over them and their decisions. Only thing I can tell you is that the person you see in the mirror is your greatest ally in life or your worst and deadliest enemy ever known. You possess the strength to win your battles and to eventually win the war within. Whether you complete this quickly or in the long run I can't say because everyone is different and not all situations are the same. Just push steadily and pay attention to how situations change and have patience and hope because you will get to the end of your tunnel one way or another. The sense of that fresh air that you’ll feel graze your skin will be the most welcome and that scent will let you know that you're on the right track. Then you're almost there, soon you'll hear things from the outside then you'll see the light. At first it will be real dim, but it’ll get brighter. The day I stand at the mouth of my cave, then I’ll know that I made it out of this prison.