# Chad Frank

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cb7BghTdm3aG09OvrNF1fO-32jBFigw95ztozO4W-_Q/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: Yes
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

# Chad Frank

**by Chad Frank**

In the fall of 1997, I got my first job working at Burger King. Because I was only 16, I needed my mom to sign my working papers, giving her consent, so I could get hired. She only complied after I swore that my work schedule wouldn’t affect my grades.

Being a working man had its benefits, with the main one, of course, being the paychecks. Though I only worked a few hours a week and earned minimum wage, I took home more than the meager allowance my mom gave me for doing chores around the house. I used my new income to pay for all of the extravagances I couldn’t previously afford: clothes, CDs, and weekend outings with friends.

Also, having a job allowed me to enroll in my school’s work-release program which allowed students to leave early so that their work schedules wouldn’t interfere with their studies. A win-win situation: I hated school and loved the freedom of coming and going as I pleased… and the extra money I earned for working longer hours.

But it didn’t take long for me to tire of the rat race. Since I worked during lunch and dinner rush hours, I spent most of my shift in a hectic state. Every night, I’d go home bone-tired and reeking of burger and fry grease. All of the grease wreaked havoc on my complexion which was already plagued with acne. I was miserable but stuck it out because being broke sucked even more.

Then I met Andy… Andy was 40, had been working there since he was my age, still lived with his mother, drove the IROC he’d saved up to buy back when he was still in high school, and lusted after cheerleaders. If that wasn’t sad enough, he seemed content with his pathetic existence. The thought of becoming Andy scared me so much that I quit the next day.

Unfortunately, with no education or job experience, I wasn’t qualified to do anything but work in fast food. I ended up working at McDonald’s until after I graduated high school.

After high school, I got a job as a cartboy/cashier at Kmart. Though slightly better than fast food, working in retail was its own special kind of hell. Once again, I found myself spending all day on my feet, doing mind-numbingly repetitive tasks. And even worse, I dealt with rude, demanding customers. Before long, I found whatever excuse I could to get out of doing my duties, often hiding out in the layaway loft or goofing off in the sporting goods and toy aisles with the neighborhood kids until I eventually got fired.

I spent the rest of my early adulthood bounding between “service” jobs, never lasting longer than a year before quitting or getting fired. I guess holding a regular job has never been important to me. Work has always been a means to an end, something better off avoided if at all possible. I guess that’s part of the reason I ended up in prison.

As I write this, I can’t help but note the irony of how similar to Andy I turned out being. Like him, I’ll most likely work in fast food well into middle-age. Unlike him, however, I won’t do it out of choice: as a convicted sex offender who will have served 31 years in prison, my career options don’t look too promising. That is, if there even is such a thing as fast food in 2034. Who knows? By then, we may all be Soylent Green…