# Clarence Whitaker-Jones

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DJhBg_ThkEG83LCrbn8c-BByO3uFy_KcLBRoRlIETG8/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: Yes
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by Clarence Whitaker-Jones**

My first job was to follow my dad’s footsteps, quotes, and lifestyle. First, at an early age, I followed my dad to the grocery store that was 40 blocks in total, going to and coming from. He never obtained a driver’s license, and so he improvised with his God giving legs to walk with determination. Those legs fed my mom and me for too many years to count. Even in the hail, sleet, rain, snow, or a sunny day. The end result was worthwhile. Fried chicken or fish with hot sauce was his specialty. I rarely went hungry all thanks to walking with my dad who had the legs of a 20 year old even when he was in his 50s. We even walked to church for free food. The distance was so strenuous that lazy people cannot say the invention of cars was God’s miracle. The length we walked would have been about 4 hours, compared to a car that would have taken 1 hour. I had no choice but to continue my dad’s footsteps. It was my job because it took most of my time and energy. Next, my pop was a man of few words when sober. He indelibly ingrained in my head “money talks and bullshit walks” and “stay out of grown folks commerce”. I followed those 2 quotes since a young age while dealing with everyday life circumstances. Even though my dad’s miasma outweighed the good from my observation, I tend to focus on what’s primal which is keeping my job of those 2 quotes being put into action. He’d say, “You’re so smart,” but I never realized it until I got older. Lastly, my further lifestyle was a rigorous job to perfect. He only ate one meal: dinner at 4:00pm. People that eat less tend to be healthier than the average 3-a-day eater. You’re not consuming all the toxins and poisons at the average rate that eventually is prone to disease. He woke up everyday at 5:00 AM doing chores and preparing for work. His bedtime was close to 9:00PM on the dot. Healthy sleep is a natural medicine of overall health. His fidelity to mom with dedication to her needs and rarely arguing kept him emotionally healthy. I can truly understand why he is 72 years old with all his teeth and no gray hair at all. Naturally, my job as a child was to imitate for experienced guidance. In conclusion, now that I’m older, I realize my first job wasn’t to be a follower but a leader. When my dad wasn’t around, I was the leader. My mindset, actions, and words were my first job to perform. I have to get the job done because nobody can always do it for me. I was a leader when I first walked, talked with the first influence, and provided food for myself. I know my dad would say now, “Son, you taught me something through you at an early age. How to love, have patience, and cry at your childhood memories.”