# "Close Call" by James Bauhaus

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 09 - September
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NeDCtdcI_jRAt937o5eRJSAKaQEqqlha4c2utLn-Q64/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**Close Call by James Bauhaus**

The kops came by with the slop wagon at 4:30 AM to begin pushing sticky trays through the bean hole. Instead of bellowing “Chow!” he shouted, “Bring your Eye-Dees!” Fifty people, mostly kids, dragged their tired asses grudgingly out of their fart sacks after a hard night of watching movie re-runs on TV. I was one of the first ones out. I got my tray and the tray for the guy I have to live with. I’m 68, he’s 62, but he fucked-off his body with his lifelong addictions to alcohol, nicotine, dope and food, so I get to be his nurse. He’s got nothing. Everything he ever got, he spent on food, dope, alcohol, nicotine, etc. He’s too fat to walk. When I bring him his tray, setting it down on the food encrusted table that he never wipes off, he’s still struggling to get off of his dogpad and onto the stool bolted permanently in the concrete. These trays are the invention of Geo Prisoncorp cost-cutters. The bottoms of each tray are the lid for the one below it. This, and inmate sloth, makes certain that there is plenty of food sticking onto the bottom to smear onto every hand that holds it and every surface it sets on. It’s a feast for the ants, cockroaches and flies. By the time I've got my scrap of plastic in my lap as a slop-barrier, and am trying to enjoy my food, he’s busy gobbling the shit down, as if hungry wolves might take it away from him. Soon as it’s gone he looks up, gazing hungrily, food and drink stuck in his nasty, foot-long beard, searching my tray for what I may not eat. “You gonna use that coffee pack?” He knows I don’t drink insecticide. I toss it onto the table at him. “And that sugar?” I toss him one of the chemical packs that he’s been taught to think of as sugar. I don’t want it, but it feels like being robbed, every morning. This is why I make him ask for each item. I used to make the kids pay for them, after I saved up a pile each, but it was too much trouble chasing them down for my money on purchase-day. They all cut their mom’s money in half by pre-spending it at the food-fuk’s cage.

“Outside,” in the “Big” cage, the youngsters are standing at the tables that are too ergo-nomically shitty to sit at, virtually pushing slop down their throats, they hold their spoons in their fists, like infants do in their high chairs, like shovels. This is proof of the neglect that they’ve suffered throughout their lives. No one ever even taught them to use the first tool. At least they don’t too-often just eat with their hands, as is done in many backward countries. These kids are also intent upon other people’s trays. They rapidly cast glances all around, competing silently with each other to find extra food someone might not eat before they stack it in the pile for their lowest-rung of food scavengers. It takes most of this herd less than ten minutes to eat and shuffle back to their sleeping racks.

The kops lock us up again for 3 more hours. At 7 or 7:30, they pop the doors to let us into the “big” cage. Only 4 kids get up. They wait patiently at the door out of the “big” cage. They are the ones who “work” for the kops at real jobs, such as grass cutters, kitchen flunkies, and launderers, etc. all the rest are trapped in the big cage. Their jobs are to clean up after themselves. Most are “paid” $8/month, but do nothing but leave a trail of messes and filth behind everywhere they go.

The kops lock us up again 3 hours later so they they can “count” us. Two and a half hours later, they let us “out” again. Soon as the doors unlock, 3 people gather at my door. It’s 11:30 AM, and they just woke up. Everyone is beginning the long wait for the kops to bring lunch to us. Two of these kids are mooches who want to sell sob stories for stamps to write a dying granny, and soap for a shower. I don’t feed their dope habits, which is the true goal of the first mooch and the cause of the second mooch.

The 3rd guy is desperate to move out of a bully’s cage and into mine, where it’s safe. I don’t go for this either. He’s no friend of mine just because he managed to learn my name from somebody else I don’t know. Also, this guy is a problem child, as is his bully. I wish I could help them both with their sociopathy, but not by punching myself in my face. There was a time almost 50 years ago, when I felt sorry for them. But they finally knocked the knee-jerk empathy out of me. I’m much more selective of the friends I keep and people whom I help. After years of being burned and exploited, I have gotten much better at spotting weasels and alley cats. They made their problems. Now I enjoy my life as much as the misery of prison harassment will permit. I mind my own god damned business. And, only out of the corner of my eye, I may see the kids play chicken with each other to have a close call.