# "Defining Resilience" by Huayna Amaro

Last Updated: March 1, 2021 3:25 PM
Month: 06 - June
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QIVMUGv-gfRGYqWXJ9NvfZ1lxi9cug7IRTxto-bf7Qk/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**Defining Resilience by Huayna Amaro**

When you analyze something, you look at all of its parts in order to get a better understanding of the whole. The word “Resilience” has been used in several different contexts. For example, in chemistry, Resilience is used to describe the physical and chemical changes that certain elements may change shape, size, or state but the qualities by which you identify that property/substance doesn’t change through the substance may look different, like the properties of metal like steel.

In biology, the term Resilience is used to describe animals and plants that live together in the same environment and they have to have an ability to be Resilient in order to survive and live in their habitat despite the dangers of predators. Like that of a chameleon whose skin color changes according to its surroundings.

When you look up the word Resilience in the dictionary, it defines Resilience as: 1) the ability of a body to regain its original size and shape after being compressed, bent, or stretched 2) ability to recover from or adjust easily to change or misfortune. Basically, Resilience is the process of adapting well in the face of adversity, trauma, tragedy, threats, or even significant sources of stress. It’s the ability to bounce back from a tough situation.

In my own experience of being in prison for over a decade now, I see that incarceration is a daily struggle in resilience and by this I mean one is constantly being compressed, oppressed, and bent out of shape by an unnatural environment and the negative influences within that environment that exist in 3 forms of solids, liquids, and gases. Prison life can test one’s ability to maintain a positive outlook on life and challenges a person's kingdoms within self and if you are not mentally strong, a person may surrender to the negative ciphers and the self-destructive behaviors and mannerisms that are prevalent in prison. You have to learn to adapt or you get adapted, and the process of adapting to prison life exerts a dehumanizing effect that causes certain feelings of hopelessness and alienation that will make you question the meaning and purpose of life. If you have ever felt alone or forgotten, you are not the only one and thousands of prisoners go through this difficult process in which we learn to accept this new reality of prison life. We all have encountered loss or disappointment in our lives which likely has been extremely painful. For example, you may have encountered major illness, death, physical abuse, emotional abuse, community violence (for me, I’m going through a divorce now) and the obvious disappointments and dissatisfactions are all extreme life disruptions that we all respond to in different ways.

During this COVID-19 pandemic every prison in VA is on lockdown and being that I’m housed at a maximum security prison called Sussex State Prison and we came out every other day for 20 minutes and being restricted to a cell has really tested my resilience and I had to learn how to build resilience by an unorthodox strategy. Just the other day when they let us out for 20 minutes for shower and phone calls, as I was walking past someone’s cell, they said “the same thing that makes you laugh makes you cry” and then he cracked a joke that really was funny and made me laugh. It was a least expected funny moment. That laugh lifted me momentarily out of this horrible situation just enough to make it livable. It was in that subjective moment that you can create resilience through humor. I heard Jamie Fox say a long time ago that “If you can find humor in anything, you can survive it”. It’s crazy but it’s true! In the bible, Proverbs speaks about “Laughter is good medicine” and just as our physical immune system protects us from toxins in our environment, our psychological immune system protects us from the toxins generated from psychological stress that we experience in the world around us. While our immune system produces antibodies to help protect us from biochemical toxins, our psychological immune system also produces “Antibodies” to help protect us from psychological toxins. I discovered and learned that humor strengths both our physical and psychological immune systems. This is because laughter increases the “Immunoglobulin A”. This is why in Proverbs someone else discovered that humor helps to sustain the psychological immune system because it alters how we feel, how we think, and how we behave. So human and laughter not only helps relieve distress and fights environmental toxins when they occur, it also regenerates our “Antibodies” so that it increases the antibody levels and helps sustain Resilience. As we experience laughter and humor, we “stock up” on psychological antibodies. So when a potentially stressful situation or event occurs, psychological antibodies are then activated to address our emotional distress. This is what I discovered during this COVID-19 pandemic that laughter and humor changes our biochemistry as well as our thoughts, emotions, and behaviors. William Shakespeare said that “Nothing is good or bad. It is thinking that makes it so”. Meaning when we change the way we think, we change the way we see things. In closing… regardless of what your level of resiliency is now, you can strengthen and increase it. The good news is that the ability to cope during life’s tragedies and the ability to bounce back can be learned and developed. We can’t control what happens to us, but we can control how we respond. This is my understanding of what Resilience is to me and how being Resilient saved my life. We can make it through this and in the process we can learn. We can even emerge stronger than before. No pressure, No diamond!