# Diane Spencer

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YkqVlmTK_xYn8l0Y7rlLLaPWVqGwwXktPvrqIs7bFBk/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: Yes
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by Diane Spencer**

The sun stretched its long, hot rays over 90 million miles down to Earth to perch itself on my forehead. I swiped at the glistening sweat with a dusty hand as I knelt in the dirt. The average 12 year old would find themselves put off, or even distraught to find themselves in my circumstances, but not me. Through the heat, dust, and dripping sweat, I smiled brilliantly back at the sun. My very first REAL job! I felt such true pride and joy as I crawled on my knees, row by row, to weed the beautifully green cucumbers. Wedding cucumbers today, maybe picking lettuce tomorrow; washing long stalks of fresh celery upon harvest. The farmer I spent the summer working for liked to switch things up on a seemingly daily basis. Looking back, I realize that habit was more to sooth the short attention span of the adolescents that worked for him than the needs of the many vegetables before us.

I found so much in that dirt beyond the occasional weeds, bugs and worms; I found what it meant to care for and tend to something outside of myself. All of the hours spent in blissful, silent thought became my great escape. Days were free from the noise and turmoil that would inevitably have to bike back home every evening. Sometimes, I would wish that the $5.00 per day pay that the kind farmer placed in my small, dirty hands were sufficient to carry me far away, as far as my precious daydreams carried me each day. I recall digging my hands deep into the soil, cool beneath its scorching surface, wishing that I could simply bury all of my troubles into the Earth…

For now, for this moment, I would just focus on the row ahead. I was learning more without even realizing, namely the patience and perseverance it took to accomplish each task I was given. I also learned discipline as I biked to work every day in the early morning dusk instead of sleeping or spending the long summer days playing. And oh, how it was to finally meet pride, to feel it from the bottom of my feet to the top of my head as I studied my accomplishments each day. To look pride in its face and shake its hand for the first time brought me joy. I wasn’t worthless. I wasn’t “an idiot!” or a failure. Those words often slammed from my step-father’s lips and into my ears, and to my sensitive heart, those words were not true. The sincere, fatherly farmer I worked for that summer told me otherwise. At the end of each day, he’d look into my eyes and simply say, “You are a good worker… You did so well today… You work harder than anyone else.” I beamed as his kind words eased the heartaches and filled me with a sense of pride and worth that I had not yet been introduced to. No matter the long hours, or the rain that beat the dirt into pools of mud all around, or the worms that terrified me, I earned so much more than $5.00 a day in those fields. I earned a true sense of self worth and pride.