# "Facing Fears" by Eugene Youngblood

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1J1CyaDDY3ISMKr3sQ6vtThwwYCU1Ij0hfyIsPBm6dJY/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by Eugene Youngblood**

I came to prison still a boy in his teens who had only been masquerading as a man. Here I am 25 years later, in my 40s, and nowadays in prison, that is regarded as the twilight of one’s life. Contrary to what man people may believe, I was not facing fear, or at least I was not afraid of entering the prison system or even afraid of the prospect before me which was spending the rest of my life in prison. Having been born and raised in Los Angeles, California and baptized in the fire of the gang culture, being killed or even going to prison for the rest of my life was part and parcel of the commitment I made to the set, and to the mighty Blue rag. One thing you have to keep in mind is that youth is impetuous, narrow-minded, impractical, and most of all, oblivious to the ramifications of poor choices and bad decisions. Perhaps it was my youth, my upbringing, or simply naivete that allowed me to feel as though I was not facing fear, when really, I was. In my young mind and in my heart, I thought I could handle anything prison had in store for me because I saw, thought of, and considered only the physical danger that prison posed. The ultimate threat of prison is that you will allow prison to beat you up and break you down mentally and emotionally, strip you of who you really are at your core, and turn you into someone who is irrational, self-centered, jaded, conniving, and disingenuous.

In life we are all in class, 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. Sometimes you are the teachers, and other times, you are the student. There are times where we will be called upon to teach others and show them the way, and other times we are required to sit and listen as others teach us. One of the greatest lessons I have learned is that life is not about avoiding things we are afraid of. Life is about facing fear. Think about it: you will never be completely without fear. If you say you are, I don’t believe you are being honest with yourself. Fear is always with us in some way, shape, or form. The question is how will you handle fear, how will you deal with it? One word: responsibility--or better yet, “response-ability” as coined by Dr. Stephen Covey. In his book, the 7 habits of highly effective people, Dr. Covey shares with us that we all have ability to respond however we decide to. You can’t and more importantly shouldn’t blame anyone, any situation, or even any set of circumstances for what is ultimately your behavior. In the end, you must be “response-able,” able to control how you respond. That is how we must approach facing fear. We can’t control what we fear, but we can control how we choose to respond to that fear. Each time we overcome one fear, another one replaces it almost simultaneously. When you run from your fear, you allow your fear to run you. When you face your fear, you are giving yourself the opportunity to overcome; you are giving yourself the opportunity to experience achievement. The value of facing fear is that you are building up your confidence and boosting up and improving your self-esteem. The belief that money, or even the pursuit of money, is the root of all evil is now antiquated. The new millennium root of all evil is poor self-esteem. Therefore, facing fear is the panacea for the malady we all have!