# "Facing Fears" by Anthony Randall

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zDWocT71Vz9mpkopdUpDyqH66eDYqPHcRpX6uLYTsXc/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by Anthony Randall**

****There are many, many fears that a person will face over a lifetime. This current story covers just a couple of fears that I’ve faced in my life. I have so many things I could choose from, and if I tried to cover all the things that have taken place, I would easily be writing for days and go over the word count.

When I was 17 years old, I graduated from high school, and my parents signed the necessary paperwork for me to join the United States Army. With that came so many fears! Basic Training brought on so many of these fears. For example, there was flying an airplane and a helicopter for the first time. There was repelling off a huge wall. After tying a piece of rope into a harness yourself. Hope you really paid attention in class when they were teaching us how to tie it up. That was really scary. To trust in yourself that you gained all the knowledge needed to perform the task. Then there was the gas chamber. We all had to go into it and stand wait on the Drill Sergeant to get around to you. Then we had to take off our gas masks, say our last name, rank, and last four of our Social Security Number. None of us made it through saying all of the information since we were gagging and choking. It is scary to be trapped in a room filled with gas and not be able to breathe, see, or anything. There was the time my Sgt. came to me and said, I think you’re a really good candidate for Air Assault school.” I told him, “Well, Sgt., while I highly appreciate your thoughts, I am aware that air assault school requires me to jump out of a perfectly good helicopter.” We shared some laughs, and before I knew it, my pride kicked in. I was off to Air Assault school because I couldn’t let my guys see I was scared to jump out of a perfectly good helicopter. Let me emphasize “perfectly good helicopter” (LOL). After my successful completion, I was all in! A full blown adrenaline junkie. When anything terrifying came up, I was the first one with my hand up. The time came when our Lt. was looking for some guys to go down to Ft. Bragg, North Carolina for airborne school. I figured, why not? I’d already gone to air assault school. There ain’t too much difference from jumping out of an airplane from out of a helicopter. Well, I was so wrong--it was completely different! In Air Assault school, you’re rappelling down a rope, and everyone who jumps lands down there together. In Airborne school, it’s way more vigorous and dangerous. You are jumping out of an airplane that’s going as fast as ever, and you’re free falling through the skies before pulling your parachute. You very rarely ever land together. You’ll be in the vicinity of each other, but you have to be very careful when you jump because if you’re not paying close attention, you can be killed.

I really believe my biggest fear I’ve faced was when my unit received our orders that we were getting shipped down range to Iraq. That was one of the scariest things I’ve ever faced. I knew what I signed up for, but it’s still scary to know that I am leaving America to go to Iraq, to a war where people will be trying to kill us. But at the same time, you say fuck it, let’s go. You do whatever you need to do to get your mind right because there’s no turning back. You’re going.

We left on October 1, 2007. We first landed in Kuwait where we stayed for two weeks. They told us it was to let our bodies adjust to the extreme heat, but who knows why we really landed there. We didn’t do much of anything. Done PT twice a day, listened to some briefings, then before we knew it, we were on a plane headed for Iraq. We were lucky because we were stationed in Baghdad at Camp Victory which was the biggest and nicest US Army base in Iraq. For awhile, it was really boring. I spent a lot of time on the base at the main chow hall doing absolutely nothing of great value. I would sit at the entrance with a little chicken, keeping count of all the soldiers who came to eat. We had civilian contractors who did all the cooking on base. When I wasn’t at the chow hall working, I was at the weight room working out or out running, trying to stay in shape and keep my mind off of reality.

You’ll be really surprised what you are capable of doing when put in life or death situations! When it becomes your life or their life, self-preservation kicks in. The adrenaline kicks in and takes over. You do what you’ve been trained to do. I was in the country for 9 months and 7 days before I was injured. I was sent to Germany for some needed surgeries before returning back stateside to Ft. Campbell to start my rehabilitation process.

I broke my left femur, my left ankle was crushed, and I had a traumatic brain injury and burns on my left arm, back, and leg. It knocked out my two front teeth. Then I was diagnosed with PTSD. I ended up getting out of the Army at my first chance. I almost died, and I’d been through some terrible things. I was ready to get far away from that life. I came home where I dealt with a whole lot of new fears! Not having a job or a steady income, fighting with the VA, and trying to get to all of my medical appointments. Finally, after 10 months of fighting with them, I got approved for disability. I am considered 90% disabled and receive $1600 a month on the streets. But during the 10 months of no job and no income, I had to do something to make some money. I made some very poor choices!! As times got harder and harder, I chose to self-medicate and began drinking heavily, smoking pot, and using other drugs. Then I started selling drugs to pay my bills and for my habit. By the time I started getting my check, it was too late. I was in too deep in the drugs, the money, and the lifestyle. I couldn’t stop, or wasn’t willing to stop.

And that’s when 5 people came to my apartment, trying to rob me. They brought a 2x4 with nails in it, and I shot the board-wielding man in the head. I continued to fire 4 more shots at the car as they left, to make sure they left. In the end, my training kicked in, and I did what I needed to do to survive. I received a 28 year prison sentence for my actions. The judge told me at sentencing that had this case not been surrounded by drugs, I wouldn’t be giving you this much time. I had to face the young man I killed, his family, and friends in court. His mother said something to me in court that I’ve never forgotten and that still sticks with me to this very day. “I don’t know how a man like you can serve his country in Iraq, come home so easily, and take the life of another human being. You deserve to never see the light of day again as a free man.” Not a day goes by that I don’t think about her words, her son, and all the pain I’ve caused. Being a trained killer is not something you can just forget how to do! When put in a kill or be killed situation, preservation kicks in! Now I fear some different things in life. As I sit in a supermax. prison for a while, which of my family members will die next? Who will be there at my release date? Will I make it to see my out date?