# "Facts, Statistics, Theorys, You Decide" by Jeremy Brown

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TM7ZBwP3exS64ILOaklmVoDg8Qr30iSwCiaMU-9wb7g/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

Facts, Statistics, Theorys, You Decide by Jeremy Brown

The universe expands and contracts like a living organ. Beyond our Universal Bubble are other Universes called The Multi Universe, not so much a Theory anymore. Alternate Realitys exist all around us and we can tune into them through meditation. 13,000 waves are entering our physical bodies at all times. We only recognize 13 or 14 of them. The human brian thinks 80 to 10,000 thousand thougts in a 23 hour period. Voyage II is still operating after 30 years in commission, its beyond Pluto now and very soon we will leave our known solar system. I have 65 pen pals 15 of which are Family, 3 Friends, and the rest organizations I am helping. I average 60-115 personal handwritten letters a month. I average 3 books a week if Im speed reading. Ive been keeping 3 journals for almost 8 years, one is personal, one is public, one is for my family. I listen to 14 hours of News per week give or take. Ive read almost 150 books a year for 10 years sometimes more although Ive lost track now. In my entire life Ive read almost 30,000 books watched 20,000 movies and have consumed 5 pounds of dirt every year. Ive seen 200 people get killed in front of me by, breatings, stabbings, gunshots, electrocution, drug overdoes, suicides, being lit on fire by someone else or by themselves. I’ve spent 2 ½ years altogether in a 12 by 12 box creating my own multiple personality’s of which I have about 6 or 7 give or take. I am anti social when I want to be sometimes spending two weeks not speaking to anyone including myself. I have meditated formally for 2 hours everyday for 10 years. Thus equalling 7300 hours although its probably much more, I can only approximate. At 10,000 hours I will have passed my Apprenticeship stage and will be a master unto myself, my own guru. Each human body has enough power inside to power New York city for one day if we knew how to tap into it. This is called Potentall Power not yet actualized. The brain can form an almost infinite array of neural synapses and connections. I have 2 and a half bowel movements a day the half is extra. I now have accumulated over 500 Tattoo’s of Signs and Symbols of the Worlds Heiroglyphes and Religion onto my entire body. I have drunk an average of 5 cups of Instant Chemically Altered Fake Perfume Sprayed Coffee everday for 10 years, thats 18250 cups of coffee costing me 3,421.875 dollars, that aren’t back by the gold standard since 1933. Thus costing me inflation my time and energy. In 2016 me and a con artist exploited and conned child molestors on the street for a total of 95,000 dollars split 4 ways. The Feds investigated us took all our money (or most of it) and told us don’t worry we arent going to charge you we think your doing society a favor, and they laughed it out with us. We were reported 45 times for impersonating a Federal Agent that didnt exist, so technically They knew what we were doing, and allowed us to do their jobs for them. Still we were punished by D.O.C In House. I snuck back 50 dollars of canteen everyweek Through Cheeseburger Bribery. In 2017 officers found a drone that landed at Everglades Correctional Institution, it contained 30 knives, pounds 5 of cocain, 20 pounds of weed, and a thousand extacy pills. I may or may not have had something to do with that incident. No one got caught because when they hacked the on board computer harddrive of the drone, a time encryption program disassembled all information in less than a nanosecond. I may or may not have had something to do with that.

Dear lord forgive me for all the justified sin I’ve committed. Not that I care anymore, I mean I already have a life sentence, and I damn sure aint doing it struggling and poor. Im telling this cause Ive already been punished for these misdeeds. And since Im at a disciplinary camp it would be best to tighten up my act due to the Rent Acops beating and killing people for literally no reason at all. O well believe it or not this is the life I live, time for my 18,251st cup of coffee, although who’s counting, surely not me…., I have been diagnosed with Attention Deficit Disorder, Schizophrenia, a Messiah Complex (google it!), Obsessive Compulsiveness, Sociopathic Non Emotional (sometimes), Anti Social Disorder. I have been on a number of psychotropic (Big Pharmaceutical) medicines, Prozac, Xanex, Vicodin, Opiods, Psrlocybrn, LSD, DMT, Methadone. I have tried to kill myself 15 times 2 of which were successfull but I guess not since Im still here. And after all of this Im here, Im okay, I dont have any STDs thank Jesus, and Ive been with 52 women, relationships, prostitutes, dancers, exotic and around 60 or 50 men. And now Ive just gone celibate because Ive realized sex is another Illusion. Yet Im still here Im okay for the moment and damn This feels good being honest to yourself. I mean I dont feel crazy. I may have done some oddball shit but I know people way more fucked than I am. Hopefully one day I can like unfuck myself (wait that didnt sound right, lord forgive me and pray for the pygmies in new Guinea) (Comic Break) And well believe it or not theirs your sign. Oh I forgot to tell you, I have a radio frequency identity tag above my right eye, thanks to an experimental surgery I was forced to agree to in 2009 that saved my life yet I had to sacrifice my privacy as well. Believe it or not I am a walked experiment literally… This was a fun exercise lets do it again.