# "Family Reunion" by Walter Hart

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 11 - November
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/17kQTS_aWLn1pYAMZwsALoE9OocjwUdifK9-ZZmLkd5c/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2015

**"Family Reunion" by Walter Hart**

The unexpected telephone call was welcomed but rather disturbing…my teenaged sister who had run away from home at the ripe old age of 15, while deciding on her own that using meth was a smart career choice, and the 26-year-old loser she called her boyfriend was the answer to all of life’s problems, had just called my mother from the rehabilitation center she currently resided in, (her 3rd stint) saying that life was no longer worth living and that she would do everybody a favor and exit stage left. My mother had received such calls from my lil sister many times before, so there was no reason to take this particular call too seriously, but still, my mom was on depth-con six and demanded that I go and visit her. I hadn’t seen my sister in 2 years, and really wasn’t looking forward to it. The last time she had come to visit me, she had stolen $613 out of my small open home safe as well as my Lakers t-shirt and credit card and drove off in my car as I slept.

Of course my mother reimbursed me from my sister’s trust fund she doesn’t know she has, but that’s beside the point. The point is, I let her into my home and she stole from me… So I can honestly say that I wasn’t looking forward to this family reunion. What could I possibly say to her? I forgave her? I loved her? I missed her? It would all be lies… But still, being the obedient son that I am, I drove downtown L.A. to a high-rise building. I looked for the address, found it, and now looked for a parking space which seemed close to impossible. Finally, after driving my sixth lap around the building, an Acura pulled out of a very valuable parking space, almost in front, and I pulled in. I sat in my car for at least 10 minutes, gathering my thoughts, snatching glances up at the 22nd floor where I was headed, and also noticing the black clouds overhead, it looked as though heavy rain was in the forecast. An old R&B classic by the Ojays played on my radio…It was “Family Reunion”…how ironic. An ambulance was parked in front of me. They were on their lunch break. I had never realized that paramedics are human and were entitled to lunch breaks like the rest of us. I always pictured them driving around, too busy saving lives and picking up distressed souls, to be able to actually have the time to actually stop, pull over, park…and eat.

So… time to catch an elevator up 22 floors, and meet a few ex-addicts who were now sober life coaches and counselors, who after two failed tries still felt they could get my young 17 year old sister to see the light. I also envisioned a couple of cuties who looked as though they were in the wrong place and that their looks alone should’ve cured them or protected them from all of life’s evils. Maybe even a couple of twenty something year old guys, my peers who just might have possibly been friends of mine in another life before alcohol and drugs turned their lives upside down. I would greet my sister, give her a false hug, and buy her a few snacks from the vending machine. Tell her what’s going on in my life, inquire about her treatment, call my mother on my cell phone, and let them chat for a moment. Promise to be back soon, sign the visitor’s log, then get out of there as quick as I possibly could without making my hasty exist too blatantly obvious.

As I stepped out of my car and locked the door, I heard glass shatter. I looked up and saw a rain of glass glimmering down the side of the building. It was coming from a large window which had been completely smashed around 20 floors up. Instinct caused me to back up as the glass fell, even though I was too far away for it to reach me. The debris shattered further on impact, becoming icy puddles on the pavement. Shock and awe halted me when a young girl leaped from the opening where the window had been as if confident in her ability to fly. Upon my first glimpse of her in the air, I knew she had witnessed terrible things in her young life and she looked unloved and lonely. Maybe she had been bullied or abused or even ignored. Yeah, she looked grossly underweight and had a terrible acne problem, but as she tumbled her soul was encased in beauty. Why couldn’t the bullies, the abusers, the enablers, the predators, or her family see that? She deserved love and respect, friends, a purpose, a fair shot at life without being degraded at every turn, turning to drugs a means of escape. The dynamics of time seemed to slow down, so that I could personally watch her suicide with displeasure, with hurt, with sorrow. She appeared to come down with an eerie grace. It was possible to think, to pray that because of some fluke in the laws of physics and gravity that she would sink like a stone through water, not like a stone through the air, and touch down in the manner of a cat leaping from a sofa onto a plush carpeted floor. This brief illusion was broken by an acceleration that I could clearly see when she met the pavement the sound resembled a distant bomb. The “smack” of a crashed airliner shaking the earth in the distance. The body was indeed human but not recognizable as the person whom it had once been. The skeleton inside had snapped and folded in unpredictable ways. Her shattered pelvis was pushed into her ribcage, her spine had become a spear and pierced her skull instead of supporting it. Her bones sounded like clashing swords as they broke and snapped. The stress of the impact pushed up through her compacting body and smashed her facial bones into oblivion. The presence of skilled medical personnel mere steps from the point of impact mattered no more than a briefcase full of money on the moon. One paramedic held his sandwich in mid-chew. His partner vomited her lunch out the side of their parked ambulance. I think at that moment I was the saddest I had ever been in my life. It even trumped my father’s death. His death was after a long illness; this was not. It was then when I recognized the t-shirt the crumbled body wore. It was the one my sister had stolen from me. It was my sister laying on the ground…