# George Frison

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/136d0LEev_Ef7EhcJiupah9LhC9NQz5MzjBPmbwC7NRk/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: Yes
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by George Frison**

Painstakingly, I sat in the non-air-conditioned room in Kennedy-King College on Chicago’s South Side, studying to earn my GED. Having been kicked out and dropped out of three previous high schools, I was determined to make the grade this time.

With my face buried in a textbook, I barely noticed the unfamiliar man entering the classroom. He proceeded to the front, spoke to the teacher for a few seconds, then asked for everyone’s attention. “Is there anyone among you who would like to sign up for a job training program?” He began. “I can’t tell you exactly what type of job it will be, but you can still sign up.”

“Aw man, get out of here,” one boy said. “Where will we be working? McDonald’s or Burger King?” While the class erupted in laughter, I stood to sign the list and was followed by only 2 others in a class of 20 people.

Roughly one week later, I woke up hungover because my dad told me that someone was on the phone about a job. I picked up the basement receiver, “Hello?”

“Is this George Frison?”

“Yes, I am him.”

“How would you like to begin training for a job with the Chicago Transit Authority?”

Excited, “I’d love it!”

“Well we can have you come in tomorrow to begin training.” After he gave me the address to the training facility, I ran upstairs to tell my parents the good news. After a two week course on bus driving and safety, I was assigned to a bus garage about a mile from my home.

Two weeks into the job, I ran into an old acquaintance at a restaurant during a lunch break. He invited me to his house after work, and that night, we drank beer and Hennessy while catching up on what each of us had been doing. He told me that he was “selling girl”: I thought he meant women, but to drive his point home, he left the room to grab two large ziplock bags, one of which was filled with marijuana and the other half-filled with cocaine.

“This is the girl I was talking about. A lot of money is to be made in that bus garage of yours; city paychecks be fat!” As he continued, I thought that he may be onto something. He told me that he could set me up with some work, a pager, and some experience on how to cut and bag the product. I bought in, and with my next paycheck, I purchased an eight ball of cocaine (which cost $300 in 1984) and a pager.

Overnight, I became a drug dealer with a friend who was right. Bus drivers, office workers, repairmen, and servicemen were all he said and more. Within a couple months, my bank account grew from $700 to $7,000. I was the man!

One customer wanted me to stay while he cooked the cocaine, to see if my product was what I said it was. I sat down while he added baking soda, placed the cocaine in a tube, added water, and began heating it with a makeshift torch fashioned from a wire hanger and cotton ball doused in grain alcohol. After the process was complete, he placed a small amount on a glass pipe and lit it. He nodded his head in approval then offered the pipe to me.

“Naw man. I don’t mess with that stuff.”

“One hit’s not going to kill you or have you hooked.” Good, old curious George couldn’t walk away. I had my lips wrapped around the pipe for the first time and went to heaven. I sat there and smoked everything on me, about $800 of merchandise. The next day, I withdrew money from my bank account, convinced that I would receive my losses on the next package. It never happened: before I knew it, I was living paycheck to paycheck, copping a package and fooling myself that I could stop at any time.

To make matters worse, a close friend of mine worked at a drug house selling cocaine and heroin. Once he had a mirror of heroin, and when I asked if I could try it, he warned me that it’s nothing to mess with.

“I’ll be the judge of that,” I told him. After that, I often said that cocaine and heroin had been united in holy matrimony.

One day, I went to work high off both cocaine and heroin, flying through the bus yard like a bat out of hell. I had an accident with another servicer, and we were taken to the hospital for a drug and alcohol test. Needless to say, that was the end of my first job.