# "Grandparents" by Fermin FuentesGrandparents by Fermin Fuentes

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 05 - May
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PSUpimACM148Ym253J0oyAttZgruFoyZe4CY6FN_3m4/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

Grandparents by Fermin Fuentes

It started about a little after adam and eve (b.c.) first abel then cain, bore offfsprings... That’s when the first grandparents were labeled: pop - pop (Adam) maw-maw (Eve)...

Wow, so many centuries ago, seems like just yesterday. well, not yesterday, but you got what I'm saying.. Sooo, that brings me to the present time --- 21 century, 2016, today, where we, us, are becoming grandparents at an alarming early age... I’m going to go back as far as the 20’s… from the 20’s to the let's say the 80’s, grandparents became grandpops and grandmoms at roughly between 50s and 60s. Now omg, from the 90s to present time, were becoming grandparents at roughly 37 to 42… that's not normal or good. In my city, Philadelphia, or should I say, “youthadelphia”, kids having kids is like the norm-- not!

Ok, you might be telling yourselves, “did he (me) offspring any kids when he was a kid?” Actually I am, I did... I was 16 when my 1st born took his first breath of oxygen and 20 when my babygirl took hers… so yes I was also a kid. That’s why I'm penning my thoughts about grandparents. My babygirl surprised me by being the first to give me the label (pop-pop). I thought my son would have a child first. He still isn’t a father, he’s 25 and single. At least he used condoms and or pulled out if he didn’t. Let me tell you that he lost his virginity at the age 16, just like his dad (me)... So if you do the math, I would have been a pop-pop at the ripe age of 31-ish... but besides all of the havoc, hurt, pain, and embarrassment that I’ve been through and caused, I’m proud to be a pop-pop... I gave my daughter more attention than my son, which is wrong. But I always loved him and always will. And even though I spent many years behind bars I still try to manage a relationship with my kids… but there is one thing I can say: my grandkids won’t have to experience what my kids experienced, and that’s me doing time. I will not let my grandbabies come up here to this hell hole of a place to visit me. Why? Well for one, I won’t allow it *ever*, and two, this pop-pop (me) won’t die in prison. I will be home in 2017 (March), God willing… when I get out I will spoil the ish out of my baby “Lyric” and my grandboy “Jonah”.. They will have a pop-pop to come running to when they do bad things, so I can tell them that bad things put a lot of stress on pop-pops back... show them right from wrong. My maw-maw Usto did the same things with me. I was a very good kid growing up-- up until my maw-maw passed away when I was 15... That’s when shit rolled down hill; that’s when I dropped out of high school; that’s when I started smoking (newports, weed); that’s when I started sexing females without a care; that’s when life took hold of me and would not let go; that’s when my mom got very sick; that’s when rent, bills were due; that’s when I started to grow up; that’s when I had a son; that’s when I got arrestested; that’s when I had my daughter; that’s when my back was up against the wall; that’s when I got arrested (again); that’s when I became a felon; that’s when the judge said state the time; that’s when life got real, real fast; that’s when noone wanted to hire me; that’s when I became addicted to the street life; that’s when I started catching case after case; that’s when I went back up state (5 to 10); that’s when I knew I had to change; then-- then-- that’s when I became a grandparent at the age of 37. Now I will be a grandparent and a damn great one too..