# "Grandparents" by Gerald R. Durst

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 05 - May
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cUbjoUxTmMqyawAHrVjMDx7ckYBhA-m3MUBUxFy59Rg/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: Yes
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

By Gerald R. Durst

Please, I beg you, take my advice. If your grandparents are still alive, talk to them. They are a fountain of wisdom and great advice. Don’t be like me, sitting in prison, looking back in hindsight at wasted opportunities.

Instead of being an energetic child, wanting only to go play, I should have spent that time learning from my grandparents. They had already been there, and done that. In their youth at the early part of the 20th century they sat at the feet of their grandparents. You can be pretty sure they heard tales of fighting and surviving the Civil War. Tales of yet unexplored parts of the west and northwest. Tales of outlaws and the peace officers who went after them.

They learned from their grandparents essential skills of hunting, fishing, trapping, gardening, canning and preserving food, courtship, manliness, and ladyship. By the time my grandparents were teens they had the needed skills to live life. They may not have had a formal full twelve year education, but they could read, write, do simple math, and they could make a living. If I had sat at my grandparents feet and listened to their stories of growing up in the eras of two World Wars, of love and loss, and tales they heard from their parents and grandparents, I too would have a fuller education and life skills that I am now playing catch up to.

Very sadly, I must say that William “Speedy” Phillips, my last surviving grandparent, passed on in December of last year. What do I know of him from first hand experience? He was retired from the Red River Ammo Depot in East Texas when artillery ammo was made. In his youth, before the area started to grow, he used to ride his horse in the woods of East Texas and Arkansas and Oklahoma. He’d fish, hunt, trap, camp out, and make jerky’d meat over campfires, and drying racks out of green tree limbs. He and grandma kept a good sized garden for them and six children. He raised cattle, fighting roosters and guinea fowl for fresh eggs. Sometimes, he would get some chicks at auction for some fresh chickens. He didn’t smoke, but drank a hot toddy of whiskey, honey, and lemon almost daily as a preventative to colds, flu, and sore throats. He was nicknamed “Speedy” as a joke. He didn’t get in a hurry for much of anything. He was quiet. I never once heard him raise his voice in anger, nor shout at anyone other than his calves for feeding time.He had the hands of a worker. They could be gentle, but could dispose discipline when needed. He could do a little bit of anything. Electrical, framing and house building, even a little welding. He was very well-rounded. He and Grandma Carrie both loved to read. Louis L’Amour was a mutual favorite. They worked together come harvest to can and preserve what they raised. They made jellies and jams that would melt in the mouth. I didn’t know until his obituary was sent to me, but he was in the Navy in WWII. Now he has joined all my other grandparents.

I never knew my mom’s dad. He had died of heart failure while my mom was still a child. My grandmother, Oleta, was a decent woman. She was once arrested in the early 80’s for bootlegging. For years she would sell, excuse me, resell beer out of her home. See, Garland was a dry city in a wet country. You had to drive into Dallas or Plano for beer. She just saved some folks a trip. She was also a pack-rat. I mean a real, bad pack-rat. When we went to her house, it was almost standing room only. She had a trail, a one-foot wide path, from the front door to the back, and each room in the house. At her house there was always candy, snacks, a Dr. Pepper or other soda (Root Beer!), and, of course, a beer. Well, at least until the arrest. One thing she had I wish I had the courage to ask her for was her black, fast-back Barracuda, but my cousin one day totaled it. I don’t know what year the car was, but I wish I had asked her for that car. I would have loved and babied it. Sadly, we lost my grandmother about five or six years ago.

Now, I also had a third set of grandparents. My adopted grandparents from my adopted father from Mom’s second marriage. They too were good people. They had a total of about 12 kids. They lived in the city of Wylie, just north of Garland on Highway 78. They were in Collin County and had Lake Lave to their north. Their house was right in front of Wylie High School, home of the Fighting Pirates. Their entire backyard was a dedicated home garden. I can still remember every fall, helping to shell peas and snap green beans for canning, and shelling pecans too. This was fun because you could eat a few pecans as you worked. You just had to keep more than you ate. Thanksgiving and Christmas were huge affairs at their hours. Naturally us kids had a table apart from the adults in the living room. Those meals were huge, and no one went home empty-handed. Granddad Durst was also a Navy Vet. He kept a picture of the cruiser he served on right above his chair in the living room. He and Grandma both loved to fish as well. I can remember many weekends in early fall of going up the Sabine River from where it flowed into Lake Tawakani. You would think that some of the family had gotten together and planned an event, but no one did. My parents and I would come up river and pass an uncle’s camp, then my grandparents, then another uncle. There would also be people we didn’t know here and there. We would make our camp, then go back to visit with family.

Now, when I was real little in the 70’s I do remember visits to my great-grandparents. These were my adopted dad’s grandparents. Big Mama and Big Daddy (though he was frail and in a wheelchair) were wonderful people. Big Mama loved to cook and to feed her “children.” Every time we went to visit, if there wasn’t a full meal, there was at least a side table covered in cakes, pies, and such. We always went home with something. They truly loved one another and were still living independently at their ages. After Big Daddy passed, Big Mama didn’t stay with us long. Without him, she figured it was time. I miss those two most of all.

Sadly, I should know more about all my grandparents. I should be able to fill volumes with their stories, wisdom, and teachings. But I can’t. Too much time spent at play and chasing girls. Not enough was spent with them, or even with my parents for that matter. Don’t make my mistakes. If it’s not too late, spend time with your grandparents. For those of us in our 40’s and up, our grandparents were part of the “greatest generation.” They stood against the Nazis, Fascists, and the empire of Japan. Some stood against the Communists in Korea. For you younger folks 30’s and down, yours’ stood against the Commies in Vietnam. They saw Elvis and the “British Invasion.” They witnessed the beginnings of the Cold War and saw the Cuban Missile Crisis. Ask them where they were when the Kennedy brothers, Martin Luther King Jr., and Malcom X were killed. Ask them about watching men go into space, and then to the moon. Where were they when Neal Armstrong touched the moon?

There’s a lot of life behind those old eyes and crow’s feet. Don’t let the wrinkles and age spots fool you. Their minds are sharp and full of years of earned wisdom. Spend time with them. Talk to them. Do with them the things they enjoy or love, even if you don’t like those things. You just might afterwards.