# "Grandparents" by J. Bauhaus

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 05 - May
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u__F4kWu6vEnSIMbi65A8DSJop9hnPRd2Y_VXtmMco8/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: Yes
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**Edited md**

**by J. Bauhaus**

My grandparents managed to live through the Great Depression when the rich people destroyed the economy by taking over the government then passed laws that let them “leverage” their riches to make more riches. The media covers this by simply saying, “There was a ‘bubble.’” My grandfather, a working man, provides actual details that never made it onto the radio, newsreels, papers, TV or history: “They stole all the money by printing their own! They bought the corporations for ten cents on the dollar, then tricked us into buying stock in these corporations at full price. Then they printed and sold us *more* stock while they sold out and bought land. I had a hundred thousand shares of radio corporations in America and thought I was rich. Each share had risen from $13 to $97! The media called it a ‘panic’ when everyone found out that the tiniest Wall Street corporation had billions of shares floating around. It wasn’t a panic; it was an outrage! A realization that we had all been robbed in the biggest Ponzi scheme ever.”

My grandmother adds, “The one before that was in 1890. My mother says that they called that one a ‘panic’ too. They all knew what they were doing, the same way a pack of coyotes knows how to kill a flock of chickens. Before that, it was just a whole string of them that they’d call ‘the business cycle.’ The thieves wanted my grandparents to believe that it was natural for us to suffer boom/bust cycles. We finally got wise and began calling them what they are: robber barons. There is a great book by that title that details exactly who did it and how.”

My grandparents educated me the same way their parents and grandparents educated them. Most people in America just accepted being robbed by the too-rich by throwing their hands up into the air and saying, “God wills that you should rob me.” My family doesn’t limit itself to one book of ancient lore. We *keep* learning, and we learned that the same robber baron families that have been stealing us blind since 1830 are *still* doing it. I sent my kids to the books that prove this. They are telling their kids where to look, what to read, who is lying to us and why, or who is paying them to lie to us. Once you uncover the motivation, it’s easy to tell who the liars are. The biggest liars, with the most reason to lie, are your own government and its corporate media lapdogs. The biggest lie now is that they fixed the economy and that Sonny Bush’s “Recession” is over. We believe it because we are not all standing in soup kitchens and bread lines during a “big starvation.” Instead, our savings are gone, our kids can’t afford to move out, college costs a lifetime of debt, and jobs are scarce. We are all underemployed or unemployed; prisons are booming though crime has been slack for years. Prices are high and wages are low, despite the fact that they shipped all our jobs out to back countries so they could have their products made for practically nothing. They *keep* sabotaging wages inside this country by flooding the place with work-for-nothings who will live 30 to a hovel. We have more gov-crats per citizen that any other country in the world. They’re plentiful as ticks on a dog, but much more thirsty. Most of their taxes upon us are concealed in sales taxes, fees, fines, penalties, and service charges. Our biggest government employed parasites flit around the world with their arms dealer or war-mongering pals, selling weapons and robbing nations. They leave their bureaucrat parasites to sit behind bulletproof glass and collect money from us. The extremely rich work tirelessly to buy laws that shift their taxes onto the backs of the working class. As a grandfather, I work just as tirelessly to uncover the facts that history and the media will not report. I put them on my website, [www.jamesbauhaus.org](http://www.jamesbauhaus.org/), and elsewhere for everyone to see. This altruism is one thing that made me a favorite of my grandparents.