# "Grandparents" by John Naylor

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 05 - May
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QrLYQEW0wC0TKCVgttif2whO2mo7vMzKfPCsWHiW5ZY/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

Grandparents by John Naylor

Not everyone has grandparents. Though most take them for granted, I think. Perhaps, that’s harsh. I’ll say a lot of people don’t appreciate their elders. I got some extra time growing up to appreciate my grandparents. My big brother, Andy, was in a private school at the time in Anderson, Indiana. My grandma and great grandma on my mom’s side used to work at Anderson Christian school. Only during this timeframe my grandma worked for St. John’s hospital in Anderson. She had time off and lived alone. So my mom and dad arranged “you and me days.” The phrase worked, even though it wasn’t grammatically correct. So I’d have a whole day with Maman. We’d go Salvation Army and Goodwill bargain hunting. I remember one day in particular. I got this little yellow dinosaur at the Salvation Army in Anderson. He looked really different, not real huggable. He sort of looked like he came out of a grab machine at the arcade or something. I named him Sunny. We had a few places where we walked or hung out. One place, I called “the boat.” It was on the boardwalk behind the Madison County Detention Center. Inmates would yell out their vents at us, cursing and so on as we walked to our boat. I didn’t understand why, or what the words meant. I was a little boy. A lot of the voices were black guys, mostly. They seemed furious like we did something to them, which I couldn’t understand. I was born in 1983. So this was the late 80’s until about 1991 when we’d go to “the boat.” I wasn’t in school for most of it as I was so little. What could I have done to wrong any of those men? I couldn’t even vote. But they screamed about our color and so on. Maman tried to explain it, but I couldn’t understand. Apparently, being born a blond boy, how I looked, would matter a lot to some people and cause others to hate me. But none of them ever had the decency to look into my blue eyes and explain why. I never dreamed I’d one day be in that same jail. That I was walking past my future cellblocks. Blocks filled with overbearing boisterous men, violence, hatred, and unspeakable sexual offenses. But he’s still alive in me. That tall, thin, blond haired, blue eyed boy. But now my hair is brown. My beard a reddish hue with grey hairs here and there. A guy pointed them out the other day. I told him it’s from all the grief lawyers put me through. We both had to laugh at that. I realize I’ll be an elder one day. A patriarch for the family. Although, I hope it’s not in a prison. I would have to be frank and honest to the children of tomorrow as Maman was, to let them down by discovering the world can be a very dark and evil place. I’ve studied why men end up here, where criminal thinking comes from, and why justice foils, the tragedies of a foiling society, community, and system. I wish I could affect more change. I can do a lot as an individual, but it’ll take more than just myself. And I could do more if I was free. I am still doing time on a life sentence right now. I think back on the time when I was blessed with liberty, when my brother Andy and I ate all of Grandma Etchison’s Christmas tree mints and heard Grandpa laugh about it because he liked them too, and when I opened presents at Grandma Naylor’s while the grown ups smoked enough cigarettes to make your eyes water. Little did I know, one day, I’d smoke too and eat “old people food.” And I think back to when I would single-handedly make Grandma Naylor’s whole beef and cheese ball disappear. People aren’t perfect. Families aren’t either. Sometimes, our memories are more perfect than the reality of our pasts. I’m so blessed to have these memories and the capacity to keep them. So many can’t in here. Families in the free world forget too. But we can still make memories, even though some have passed on to wait for the day of the Lord. From their pasts, and our present circumstances and experiences, we can affect change for the future. And we honor them by doing so.