# "Gratitude" by Antwon Housey

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1130Fcm6UtunYko1RfEPXKvRCUHIjF_7kE4um1akYevM/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Gratitude by Antwon Housey**

Being grateful for the things in my life never came easy. As an adolescent I walked around with a chip on my shoulders the size of Asia. I never understood the reason until I found myself sitting in a man cell in seg at the county jail. The reason I was in seg was because this white guy and me got into a fight, because I tried to rob him for his store goods. Now when you are taken to seg they offer you a plea bargain for your infractions to alleviate the punishment. Well since I knew that my “friends'' who was in the dorm with me were going to testify that the white boy started the fight. I went to disciplinary court and was immediately found guilty. Apparently those guys who were supposed to have lied for me all of a sudden got high on moral codes. They were even threatened with a L.O.P. (Loss of Privileges) so they begin to tell the whole truth and nothing else but that! I received 180 days of administrative segregation within those 180 days. I nearly went insane because I couldn’t keep my fears from surfacing. My thoughts become severely objective. I found myself critiquing my fears, (Rejection, abandonment, incompetence, failure as a son, big brother, grandson, nephew, and a father). While I spent my days thinking and my nights dreaming, I began to ask my consciousness to deliver me from this painful self-hatred. I went through a stage of total peace, because I asked myself for forgiveness. When I began the process of forgiving myself I received most of the answers to those questions I was asking. When I got down to only twenty days left I was relocated to a segregation pod with windows on the door so I could see the T.V. while I was sitting upon my bunk. I heard someone say “Come Holla at me in the vent.” I usually never talk in the vent because most “vent conversations'' turn in arguments, however I was curious as to whom it was. Surprisingly it was the white guy with whom I got into the fight. He wasn’t aggressive or violent when he asked me his first question “hey man I know we started on a big bad note, however I wanted to ask you to forgive me. Because when you asked me for something to eat, I lied to you in your face and told you I didn’t have any food left.” I was flabbergasted he was too sincere and before I noticed I was asking him for forgiveness. After we both accepted each other’s grace he said “Hey man I got this mother’s day card over here but my mom's passed away when I was young would you like to sent it to your mom's to help amend that bridge you broke, because if you don’t fix it now it may just burn!” The only word I utter was “Gratitude!!” That was seven years ago now I’m grateful for so many things in my existence it’s hard to keep count. Even though I’m incarcerated I smile everyday because I’m pleased with the person I’m growing to become everyday is a grateful one. Gratitude was a lesson and principle that I learned the hard way that’s why it’s my predominant drive force as I continue this journey called life.

**Gratitude by Antwon Housey**

Being grateful for the things in my life never came easy. As an adolescent I walked around with a chip on my shoulders the size of Asia. I never understood the reason until I found myself sitting in a man cell in seg at the county jail. The reason I was in seg was because this white guy and me got into a fight, because I tried to rob him for his store goods. Now when you are taken to seg they offer you a plea bargain for your infractions to alleviate the punishment. Well since I knew that my “friends'' who was in the dorm with me were going to testify that the white boy started the fight. I went to disciplinary court and was immediately found guilty. Apparently those guys who were supposed to have lied for me all of a sudden got high on moral codes. They were even threatened with a L.O.P. (Loss of Privileges) so they begin to tell the whole truth and nothing else but that! I received 180 days of administrative segregation within those 180 days. I nearly went insane because I couldn’t keep my fears from surfacing. My thoughts become severely objective. I found myself critiquing my fears, (Rejection, abandonment, incompetence, failure as a son, big brother, grandson, nephew, and a father). While I spent my days thinking and my nights dreaming, I began to ask my consciousness to deliver me from this painful self-hatred. I went through a stage of total peace, because I asked myself for forgiveness. When I began the process of forgiving myself I received most of the answers to those questions I was asking. When I got down to only twenty days left I was relocated to a segregation pod with windows on the door so I could see the T.V. while I was sitting upon my bunk. I heard someone say “Come Holla at me in the vent.” I usually never talk in the vent because most “vent conversations'' turn in arguments, however I was curious as to whom it was. Surprisingly it was the white guy with whom I got into the fight. He wasn’t aggressive or violent when he asked me his first question “hey man I know we started on a big bad note, however I wanted to ask you to forgive me. Because when you asked me for something to eat, I lied to you in your face and told you I didn’t have any food left.” I was flabbergasted he was too sincere and before I noticed I was asking him for forgiveness. After we both accepted each other’s grace he said “Hey man I got this mother’s day card over here but my mom's passed away when I was young would you like to sent it to your mom's to help amend that bridge you broke, because if you don’t fix it now it may just burn!” The only word I utter was “Gratitude!!” That was seven years ago now I’m grateful for so many things in my existence it’s hard to keep count. Even though I’m incarcerated I smile everyday because I’m pleased with the person I’m growing to become everyday is a grateful one. Gratitude was a lesson and principle that I learned the hard way that’s why it’s my predominant drive force as I continue this journey called life.