# "Gratitude" by Michael Reichert

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/12IGhYxJj-yl4RnCLfFQ-hVoa4bhPU3m7LORB5arIgcU/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Gratitude by Michael Reichert**

I cannot begin an essay about gratitude without acknowledging my Lord, Jesus Christ, who makes all things possible and showers great blessings upon me daily. I could write pages and pages on this subject, but I’ll choose just a few and concentrate on those. When I violated my parole and returned to prison in 2012, I began to notice that my vision was getting foggy. That’s really the word that best described it. Things in the distance seemed to be in a light fog. As the months went on and I was transferred to SCI Somerset, where I am now, the impairment became steadily worse. It was bad enough for me to put in a sick call slip to see the eye doctor. Upon examining my eyes, the doctor diagnosed me with cataracts. I was only forty-five years old at the time and couldn’t believe I’d developed this condition that people get in their later stages of life. There was a policy within Pennsylvania’s DOC concerning treatment of cataracts that stated that as long as one of your eyes is 20/60 or better, cataract surgery is “not indicated.” Because of this cruel policy, which has since been changed as a result of a lawsuit, I was basically forced to endure near blindness in both of my eyes before they got bad enough to meet the criteria set forth in the policy.

In December of 2013, the cataract was removed from my right eye, the worst of the two. My left eye remained impaired until the policy was changed, nearly three years later. I’ll never forget the day I was released from the infirmary after having my first cataract removed. It was close to Christmas and I was walking from the medical department back to my block. Somerset winters can be quite cold and this was one no exception. I glanced to my right as I made my way along the walk and caught sight of one of the most beautiful things I’d ever seen: the dead brown grass between the sidewalk. A normally bleak sight became indescribably gorgeous simply because of its clarity. I stopped and stared, a well of emotion overflowing within. I had taken my vision, as miraculous as it is, for granted all these years. It’s true what they say: you don’t know what you’ve got until it’s gone. I can tell you in all sincerity that I’m grateful for my eyes and will never take seeing for granted again.

Moving on to the subject of writing, I have always wanted to write stories and got serious about it almost two years ago, when I began writing in journals every day without fail. Much of my motivation came from an organization similar to Prisoner Express, which sends free books to inmates. The book is titled *A Year of Writing Dangerously* by Barbara Abercrombie. It contains 365 entries, one for each day of the year, designed to provide the writer with inspiration and encouragement. When I read a day’s entry, I would begin my journal entry for the day. After writing every day for a year and reaching the end of the book, I simply went back to day one and started the book again. As that first year of writing seriously progressed, I began experimenting with verse as well as prose and wrote a few pieces that I considered finished. I began researching publishers and also discovered another Prisoner’s Advocacy program known as the PEN Writing Project. I submitted some of my poems and stories to their annual Awards for prisoners. The winners are announced in March, which is this month, so my fingers are crossed.

It wasn’t until recently that I came across Prisoner Express in one of the resource guides I receive. I’m very excited about the many great projects I found in the Winter 2017 issue and have already sent in my registration form, as well as two poems for the Poetry Project.

It’s safe to say that I would not be the person I am today if it weren’t for organizations like Prisoner Express and the volunteers who run them. Allow me to express my heartfelt gratitude to all of you out there who care enough to take time from your busy schedules to help those of us who are incarcerated. From prison advocacy organizations to Prison Christian Ministries, whose volunteers coming in constitute the only visits some of us can look forward to, you all mean so very much to me and enrich my quality of life beyond what I can express. THANK YOU!