# "Guardian Angel" by Dillon Gresham

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mO_UiygEo3tmGlvwA7ZdjyQwAhIQfSurv1cc5e2Dp14/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**“Guardian Angel” by Dillon James Gresham**

My father died in Jacksonville, Florida back in 1994 when I was only 3 years old. Due to a ton of hardships and circumstances, I didn’t get to live a normal life. None of my biological family would accept me, so DCF (foster care) took over. I spend a good deal of my time in and out of institution group homes and, from one abusive family to the next. I was running away by 7, and fully involved in the streets by 8, then being arrested by 9. I got slammed into life through the Fast Track. After my first arrest, it just became standard to go to JDC, then get out and run away, back to the streets and away from foster care. I eventually got affiliated, and moved into bigger and better crimes as life progressed. After JDC, I started Juvenile Programs then advanced to County Jail at 17, youthful offender programs, and then the Chaingang. Right now, I’m sitting in the County Jail on 23 hour Maximum Security Lockdown waiting to go to trial for a Capital Murder Case. I’m 27 years old and I’m looking at the death penalty. I never got to experience an actual childhood, never even got to enjoy my teenage years. My whole life has been nothing but experience after experience in the school of hard knocks. My life wasn’t all bad, however. Through the numerous life-threatening situations I’ve surpassed, I’m still breathing, I’m still healthy, and all my body parts function properly. Though I have many battle scars, nothing has ever been internally critical. There are many times that I reminisce and I realize how lucky I am. My father has protected me this whole time. He’s never left me, he is my Guardian Angel. Shot, stabbed, bitten, jumped, run-over, hit by a van, overdose on medicine, suicide attempts, drowning, falls from extreme heights, and rape. I’ve survived it all, and to look at me from the outside you’d never know the whole story. I’ve moved all over and been established in Florida, Minnesota, Iowa, Maine, and Wisconsin, in multiple cities, and never established real friendships or relationships. I’ve always been too wild. And Now, I pay for that with loneliness, but I thank my Guardian Angel for protecting me from death, and fake friends, and scandalous women, and all those times I should have been arrested for some pretty bad things, but got away. Though it may seem that I’ve had no protection, it takes the truth to see how much I really had. I’ve made it through life with some pretty good luck considering, and nothing permanently damaged. I’m alive, and my Guardian Angel has used the legal system to give me breaks and vacations, but never permanently took me from the world. So in dying, my father found a way to keep me protected by guarding me through life.