# Haircuts

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 02 - February
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/125ZzAGEF0x-emHAVrtUcr0kNxk1ADjBw4qs70fO55RI/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

Haircuts

**by James Bauhaus**

Prison haircuts? All the primp-stars get one every month. The barbershop is small-talking, ego-tripping, begging, “borrowing”, stealing and conniving. It’s a place to hide when the screw comes around to lock up the loiterers. The barber shop is a staging platform for forays into other areas. Inmates are like cockroaches: when doors open, they flood out of their tiny, two man, toilet-sized “day-cage”. Like mountain climbers, this is the base camp from which all other expeditions are staged. The barbershop is the excuse used to exit the base camp cage. From base camp two, forays are planned that sometimes are successful in attaining the tightly fenced “breeze way.” This is a long, roofed cage that prevents side-trips between two buildings. Somehow, tiny sparrows can squeeze through the rusty, tetanus-harboring mesh. This concrete and steel tunnel is like a jungle! It is very popular for loitering, lurking, skulking and bushwhacking, though there are no bushes of course. If we’re not too hungry, we can share scraps of bread with the sparrows while other inmates jealously watch. These inmates are generally heavy set, and sometimes they will whine about how these sparrows are getting fat. Through the mesh, we can see starlings, and small patches of actual grass trying to live between the bricks or in cracks in the concrete. The view is marvelous, too: more prison buildings, blue sky, white clouds. Sometimes the sun can be seen. There are kop-cams at both ends. Soon as an expedition arrives to enjoy the “outside”, it’s only a few minutes before a SWISH-team is sent to attack. (Special weapons in screws’ hands.) They jealously guard against us getting too much sun, air sights and sounds that are not related to prison. Non-prison stimuli cause “disruptive behavior” such as attempts at escape, suicide, self mutilation and violence. A lookout is posted, and when the screws are seen coming with their beatsticks, shock-shields and poison gas, he hisses “jigger!” Everyone who is still sane dashes back to the barber shop and pretends to be waiting for a haircut.

Haircuts come in two varieties: bad and good enough. There are two kinds of prisoners: inmates who work for the cops, and captives who don’t. The inmates who work for the cops get paid $8/ month. This is a king's ransom compared to what it was years ago: $1.60 / month. The Haircut inmates are the ones who tell the new inmates how the prison works. These new inmates are called “skinners”, because the screws steal everything that they brought with them from jail except their skin. The first thing that the haircutters tell skinners is that they have to pay if they want to avoid a bad haircut. Obviously, haircutter inmates can hustle up all kinds of extra goodies for themselves with this threat. During the old hippie days, haircutter inmates got starved out. Nobody wanted a bad haircut. Nobody wanted to pay them a second time for a good-enough haircut. The cops hated this, and would dog pile you as you came out of the chow hall and make them chop your hair off and shave you. Hair just sent the screws into a frenzy of rage and hatred. The only way to avoid being dog piled and sheared was to never go to eat. Now-a-days, it’s the inmates who rat-pack you. Due to the extreme crowding, sensory deprivation and grinding poverty, if the rat-pack inmates see you with anything of value, like a roll of toilet paper, you could be beaten to death for it. Now that everyone has to fight, nobody wants long hair. It can get you killed. A lot of these little twerp armies shave all their hair off and scribble-up their heads with permanent graffiti: scary stuff like spiderwebs, dead skulls, swastikas, grim reapers; anything that may scare off a potential attacker. They get in these ratpacks by showing their “heart”, most commonly by sneaking up behind some unwitting skinner and suckerpunching the hell out of him and running away.

Myself, I don’t feed any of these cowardly, jealous, greedy, hate-filled parasites, c or inmate-who-works-for-the-cops. My last inmate haircut was in 2006, when I gave one of those libs haircutters a bag of cookies. Later, I asked ”what did I do that for?” I’m stuck in a stinking prison! I just paid twice (in Texas and food) for something I didn’t want! I don’t feed rats! My job, as an innocent captive trapped by a crooked system, is to expose them and bankrupt them. So I cut my own hair with a razor blade, and I flip rocks on corruption by writing about it every day on

[www.jamesballhaus.org](http://www.jamesballhaus.org/)