# "Highway to Hell" by Jason Riley

Last Updated: March 2, 2021 12:01 PM
Month: 06 - June
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rBbbAIJcvQCzbuZra4rnD7KJegiWz_5r-OJBtGO1DRU/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**Highway to Hell by Jason Riley**

“Say star, you porcelain Princess, I do thank we up fecal creek this time mama!” Jeseus exclaimed to starlitt while she was maneuvering her ‘76 Pink convertible coupe de villa through death valley. To him, this get-a-way route that she chose would lead to sure capture. You see, Death Valley was legendary for the sheer amount of lives it claimed yearly. With treacherous curves, winding cliffs that led to the abyss, Death Valley was a virtual graveyard for any and all who dared defy her speed limit of 45mph. And here were he and Starlitt doing the maximum speed of 165mph, maybe more, because she had just tuned her 454 engine up, converted her 4-barrel carburetor to a state-of-the-art mass flow EFI fuel injection system, and installed a 700R transmission powered by a 9” read end. “Now daddy, you never doubted my driving skills before, what reason do you have for dismay now?” replied Starlitt, flashing a smile that could melt antarctica. Starlitt crescent moon was born and raised in an affluent suburban Myrtle Beach, S.C. Her father, Phull Moon, was a neurologist before he retired in 2007. Her mother, Lucky Moon, was elected chief solicitor for Richland County in ‘09, and she has been fighting the crime rate ever since at Attorney General of S.C. Star, as everyone close to her preferred to call her, earned her Political Science Degree from Harvard in ‘16. She stood 5’5” tall, weighed about 150 pounds, donned a full head of silky sandy blonde hair and possessed a pair of hazel brown marbles for eyes that glowed like a deer caught in headlights. At the tender age of 19, her junior year at Harvard, she interned at Major Steve Benjamins’ head quarters. She was a Rhodes Scholar to the heart and was most definitely the brains behind her and Jeseus shady endeavors. Now Jeseus, on the other hand, was born and raised in Columbia, S.C. Jeseus Orlando Rydah owed his tough nature to first being exposed to the rural neighborhoods of forty-eight, then to migrating across town to the deathtrap called Roosevelt Village Projects. He became a surefooted fighter and at 5’10” tall 200 pounds, he was infamous throughout the urban jungles of Columbia as a knock-out artist, dope dealer, and part time stick-up kid. Hence, how the unpredictable encounter between he and starlitt occurred. It was the year 2015 and Jeseus had just scored 100 pounds of killer Marijuana from his female supplier Texas Tequila at the remarkable ticket of $200 a piece. Long story short, South Carolina Law Enforcement Division caught wind of the transaction and subsequently charged a 19 year old Jeseus with trafficking and conspiracy to distribute 100 pounds or more. Lucky moon, Star’s ambitious mother, sought-out the case and contrived to prosecute young Jeseus to the fullest extent of the law, even though this was his first time in trouble with the law. However, Jeseus had an ace-in-the-hole: a budding star on South Carolina political landscape, but also a criminal defense attorney by the name of Todd Rutherford. On the day of Jeseus’ plea agreement, being bored to no end at Major Benjamin’s office, Star decided to drop in on her mother at work, in which the courthouse was right across the street. It may sound cliche, but when Star layed eyes on Jeseus, it was indeed love at first sight! “In the case subjudice, the court will acknowledge the agreement made by Mr. Rutherford and Mrs. Moon of the pre-trial intervention deal, allowing Mr. Rydah to plea to simple possession of Marijuana. Mr. Rydah has been sentenced to 1 year in the S.C. department of corrections, suspended to 6 months probation/community service coupled with 6 months incarceration. Do you accept the court’s arrangement Mr. Rydah?” asked Judge Hangumbi. “Yes sir” replied Jeseus matter-of-factly. “Well consider it finalized, and Mr. Rydahm the sole reason the court has been lenient on you is not because of your lawyer, with someone better you may have walked off scott free, but because you don;t seem incorrigible, however, if you set foot in my courtroom again- you will regret it” Judge Hangumbi half joked. “Yes sir Your Honor” answered Jeseus briskly, relieved that he didn’t get railroaded like a couple others before him. A few months into his bid at McMormick Correctional Institution, Jeseus received a letter from Starlitt moon asking if she could visit him this weekend and give him a picture and her phone number. He called her promptly, they got better acquainted, she visited him several times, and over the ensuing months, they developed a bond that a crane could not demolish. Once Jeseus was released, together they had done a record 36 bank heists all over the country, never having to injure anyone except on their most recent job. “Starlitt, Moonbright, you thank you murked that gutter brained security guard honey dip?” Questioned Jeseus, praying that his Queen wasn’t facing a murder rap along with all the other fugitive charges she were fleeing. “No way, Jeseus, you know I was awarded markman in rote. I shot him in his sternum, one of the most callous bones in the human anatomy” answered Star, calling Jeseus by the name she gave him. “We should be in Mexico expeditiously. Tomorrow morning, we’ll be abroad ‘Robin Hood’, sailing the tumultuous seas, eating shrimp kabobs with our patrons” She stated while swerving around a sharp curve that forced 3 of the squad cars pursuing off into a ravine. She then accelerated down a steep hill and found the hidden path she was searching for. Once off the road, the helicopters trailing found themselves bombarded by gigantic Redwoods that broke the propellers and sent them careening in the brush. Once on this hid-a-way strip, Jeseus knew they were almost in the clear. “Wheeee, sugar lady, didn’t see that one coming, what other surprises you got tucked under that sexy skirt of yours?” asked Jezeus, confident they had just shook the law off their tail. “Nothing my powerpenis, just a private jet absconded up the path a bit. One of my sorors agreed to fly us to South America and sail with us for about 60 days” she answered. Seeing the clear blue skies and warm beaches of South America, with two beautiful women, all while languishing aboard the ‘Robin Hood,’ reminded Jezeus of his favorite verse from the Bible, “Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death-(In this case Death Valley)- I shall fear no evil...”

The End-For Now...