# "Holidays" by James Walker

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ORAb77ECgU3w0g4Ce7Cv8Zsw4HhmBL0x-zotOyOylPo/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2015

**"Holidays" by James Walker**

Wow! I don’t even know where to begin. So many wonderful memories growing up. I used to picture our family like the Brady Bunch. Until I grew up and realized just how dysfunctional we really were. My mother, however, would go above and beyond, when it came to the holidays, whether it was Halloween, Thanksgiving, or Christmas. Decorations were going up. Be it skulls, pumpkins, or Mrs. Claus, my momma knew how to celebrate. The holiday season started with my birthday, Oct 25th. The haunted houses were in full force. There were at least 4 or 5 in my town of Dundalk (Balto, MD). You could feel the excitement in the air. The temperature change. The costume parties. My mom had a best friend, her name was Mrs. Patty. Well, they did everything together. One was to make costumes for us kids; me, my sister Stacey, Mrs. Patty’s youngest son--Michael (The Blakes). I remember one year, they made me a doggie costume (It Bernard). I thought it was the coolest thing in the world, next to ice cream and pizza. It actually had a bodysuit, a big ale head, with goofy ears. I was only about ten. I actually won a contest at the local McDonalds. For years I used to sneak into my mom’s closet and try the costume on. Until finally I couldn’t get my big body and head in it anymore.

But this memory also brings me my first experience with death. Mrs. Patty ended up with cancer. Remember my mom and her were inseparable. Our families did everything together. Well, I literally got to watch this woman die. It was horrible. I was only like 10 or 11. I really didn’t understand. But when my mom would go over to her house to tend to her, I would sneak up the stairs to steal a glance. I thought “Oh My Meel” who is that woman. She was nothing but skin and bones. You could smell the scent of death. I would watch the tears run down my mother’s face. Once she passed, there was no more going to Mrs. Patty’s, and our families drifted apart. That was my first experience with death. But like I said my mom and Mrs. Patty did everything together even at Christmas. The baking of the cookies. The hot chocolate chips melting in your mouth. They would take the big phone books and make Mr. and Mrs. Claus out of them. They were so cool. The kids’ job was to take and fold all the pages (so they would stand up), thousands of them, needless to say, us kids whined about it, but the end results were miniature Claus’, little heads and all with little gold wire glasses, suits and all. My mom went all out on decorations with garland and lights. Inside the house and out. The roof, trees. My mom decorated the bathroom! How cool it was at 2 AM in the morning to go into the bathroom and watch the Christmas lights twinkle (L.O.L)

But this also brings back a memory. I have never been whooped my whole childhood. Until this one night. I saw the look in my dad’s eyes, and I knew just how close I had come. I was still somewhere in my early teens, twelve, thirteen, or fourteen somewhere, around there. Well, my parents had gone out for a Christmas party and allowed me to stay home by myself. Shocking! because I was like “Dennis the Menace,” always into something. Well, we have a big old “Ben Franklin” fireplace. I actually HATED! it. I used to have to collect the firewood before school and get a little fire going, and my clothes would smell like smoke and the kids would make fun of me. Needless to say, it started MANY fights. Anyway, on this particular night, I get a roaring fire going. Logs stacked upon logs. Got the metal doors folded back. I got the safety screen on the front thaugh. Flames shooting out the front, got the front of the stove glowing red-orange. I’m mesmerized, by the beautiful flames. The fire starts to die down, so I close the doors. I think ok, I got away with that (I had actually panicked at one point). Then I look up and all the garland hanging from the ceiling is melted. I think “Oh my Gosh, I’m dead!” What can I do? I got to think up a story. Well, they come home and before they notice, Dad reaches for the doors of the fireplace. All then fingers singe to the front of the doors. You have seen his fingerprints you could hear it. I can’t recall exactly what happened. (I’m sure I got punished.) But I will never forget that look in his eyes, as I took off up the stairs. Dad’s gone now, died last year. I know this, he never whooped me. I don’t know if that’s good or bad.

Parenting, that’s like wondering about Aliens. Everyone has their views, which brings me to Valley View farms. It was like a Winter Wonderland, that we went to every “Christmas.” You would walk in the door, and as a kid, it would take your breath away. It was like the size of a grocery store with every kind of Christmas tree decoration. All kinds of lights you could imagine was there, lit up, hanging from the ceilings and trees. It was so beautiful. They had live reindeer. Totally blacked out and all the decoration was made out of glass and white lights. Spectacular. It’s been many years, nearly 30 since I have visited that place. But the memories of my holidays, are as if it were yesterday! Mom doesn’t even put up a tree no more. I can’t even fathom that, compared to my childhood. I know I felt loved and cared about. Now my holidays are celebrated in my mind. I can still taste Momma’s hot baked chocolate chip cookies. Ahhhh Holidays!