# "Holidays" by Norman McDonald

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GCACrJy6YI44RWS5ZKymKQktWsdSSSHxH7SzscQ-m0o/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2015

**"Holidays" by Norman McDonald**

Growing up, the holidays were always a big deal in our family, especially the Christmas holiday since we would always travel from our “transplanted home” in northwestern Ohio back home to Florida for that school break. It was a time to reestablish my southern roots and stay with my beloved maternal grandmother. Typically, my aunts and uncles from Virginia and other parts of the Sunshine State would be there as well, so it was also a family reunion of sorts, and never without the accompanying drama. I would always construct a countdown calendar to cross off the days and weeks until we would be out of school and headed south down I-75, through the Smoky Mountains.

One particular Christmas holiday, I had just gotten a German Shepherd dog in the late summer, and she, of course, accompanied us on our southward journey home for the holidays. This was met by varying degrees of hostility by my Mom’s sisters, who believed it was an invasion of my grandmother’s cat’s living space to have a young dog in the house. The cat’s attitude reflected the same adverse reaction. As the puppy sought out the feline family member to initiate some playtime, the cat responded with unsheathed claws and managed to shred the puppy’s inner eyelid. Next was a tirade from my Mom’s younger sister about why we should not have ventured to bring the “stupid dog” in the first place.

Providentially, the next-door neighbor was a veterinary doctor of the first order. He had previously performed surgery on a gerbil with a broken leg and successfully pinned the break, allowing the leg to heal normally. His expertise was called upon and he performed miraculous stitching of the puppy’s inner eyelid, which was only a gossamer-thin membrane, which also healed normally. I had initially feared that my new dog would lose her eye. This Christmas holiday was also a life-changing event, since my older sister received as a Christmas gift the Beatles “White Album,” which had just been released, in vinyl. We came close to wearing out the two-disc album before we even left for home.

One year, I made an attempt to bring with me a female companion from the northland, a girl in my high school art class. Lisa was not a particularly attractive girl but had a unique charm about her that made her truly special. One day, as students are prone to do, the guys in the class were harassing her for wearing a thin white dress with no-slip underneath, and the visibility of her brightly printed underwear through the dress was to become the source of endless entertainment at her expense. I was reticent to join in until it was time to leave the classroom when I parroted one of the taunts she had received about the cartoon birds that were clearly visible on her underwear. She seemed shocked that I had at least joined in, and asked me to stop, because, “you are embarrassing me.” As this was the first period of the day, I then felt bad that I had added to her misery with my stupid comment. I asked her to wait in the admin office, and as I only lived a quarter-mile from the school, I excused myself from my next class (which I did on too many occasions) and found a half-slip in my older sister’s room and loaned it to her so she would not have to spend the rest of the day in ridicule. This gesture opened a new phase in our relationship, and I thought it would be nice to ask her if she would like to come along to Florida for the Christmas holiday break. It was a nice prospect to escape the northern Ohio winter for a few weeks and hit the beaches. My parents thought it was nice and approved, but, unfortunately, her folks did not think it was appropriate and would not allow her to come along. I can only imagine the commentary from my mom’s sister if I had brought along a young female companion to the Christmas get-together.

I was also allowed to travel south to be with my Grandmother for summer break, spending half of the time in Florida with her, and the other in Georgia with my paternal Grandfather, who owned a funeral home just south of Atlanta. When I graduated from high school, got married, joined the army, et cetera, our annual trips home to Florida became a beautiful set of memories, as I reluctantly moved on.