# "Holiday Candy" by Edward Walsh

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wn9LNr5UgAETey2Ckw2PCssZqQBwUcHOfvXb2vYXKA0/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2015

**"Holiday Candy" by Edward Walsh**

Today I bought a Hershey’s Milk Chocolate candy bar. It was 1.55 ounces and cost $1.20. I haven’t bought a Hershey’s candy bar in years. I was truly looking forward to savoring that chocolate treat. When I finally fought through the unfamiliar wrapping I glanced down at a flimsy thin square of chocolate with the smaller embossed squares molded into it. The name of Hershey was in the center of each of the smaller squares. As if I didn’t know or to remind me of what I bought. I lifted the flimsy thin chocolate bar off the gnarly, ripped wrapper and examined it. I was disappointed.

I thought back to when I was 16 years old and used to buy Hershey’s chocolate bars. The chocolate bar was much bigger and cost way less. I remember the wrapper wasn’t as hard to open. All you had to do was slide the parchment paper wrapped bar out of the paper sleeve. I still remember the day I heard the devastating news that not only was Hershey’s going to increase the price of their chocolate bars, but also make the bars smaller. I was angered to the point that I swore not to buy Hershey’s chocolate bars again.

Memories of my teen years and candy shifted to Easter and my first big Easter basket. It was a huge colorful straw basket with a long handle. Stuffed in the basket was a green-colored imitation grass. Decorated on the top of the grass was an assortment of Easter candy. But best of all-centered monumentally-was a huge chocolate bunny. The biggest chunk of chocolate this young boy had ever seen. My expectation of what I was about to gorge on soon turned to disappointment. After I ripped open the colored cellophane wrapper that was around the basket I excitedly lifted out each piece of candy and examined them. A small packet of jelly beans. Some small foil-wrapped chocolate and malted eggs. And a big chocolate egg in a windowed Easter decorated box. Then the huge chocolate bunny. I grabbed a handful of the grass filler and ripped it out of the basket. I was expecting to find more candy hidden in the grass. But ripping through the grass I found nothing more. I pouted, but then I eyed the huge chocolate bunny.

I carefully opened the box that the huge chocolate bunny was in and gently lifted out my treasure. I hungrily examined it turning it over and over in my tiny hands. The big decision was; where do I bite it first? I aimed the ear into my mouth and bit hard. Expecting to bite into a solid chocolate bunny ear and it turns out to be a hollow chocolate bunny ear was a terrifying moment for this young boy. While chewing the chocolate that I just bit off I looked down the hole into the chocolate bunnies head. Some things are just hard to comprehend at such a young age. Huge hollow chocolate bunnies are one. Big hollow chocolate eggs in a windowed easter decorated boxes is another. I was disappointed. I felt the same way looking down at the 1.55 ounce $1.27 flimsy then a square of Hershey's milk chocolate bar-disappointed.

Thinking of all the holidays I can't help but to ask myself "Which is my favorite holiday for candy?" Christmas? Nope. I can only eat so many peppermint candy canes. I can barely finished one small red and white striped cane. I don't think there's a special candy for Thanksgiving. I think Thanksgiving is reserved for cakes pies and cookies. Now Halloween has candy out the...,well let's just say there's a lot of Halloween candy. But it's all just smaller versions of your every day big candies. Nothing really special except for the white tipped orange cones known as candy corn. Valentine's Day? Heart shaped boxes of unidentifiable squares of filling stuffed chocolates. Ever open a box and find that your Valentine's Day sweetheart poked their finger into each chocolate square to see what was in the center?

But then there's Easter. My favorite candy holiday. I love jelly beans. Not the new style jelly beans that come and unusual flavors like bacon, pizza, and pickles. Not the fruit-flavored ones either. I love the good old-fashioned red, yellow, green, pink, black, and purple jelly beans. My favorite thing to do is to grab a handful of jellybeans and stuff them all in my mouth at once. The chocolate-covered cream-filled eggs and the chocolate eggs with the caramel and nuts center are my second most favorite candies. I also like the small chocolate and malted milk eggs that are wrapped in colorful foil. They always remind me of miniature footballs then there are the peeps. You know peeps. Those are the yellow sugar-loaded marshmallowy baby check looking candies. They taste like you popped a cup of sugar in your mouth. Once as an adult I ate so many peeps I got on a sugar high then got sick. And yes I'll even buy me a hollow chocolate bunny. Because, well, just what would Easter be if you didn't bite into the ear of a hollow chocolate bunny?

This motivates me to want to start a chocolate candy business specializing in holiday candies. Not just Christmas, Valentine's and other typical holidays that have candies. But all holidays. I'm going to make candy that when you open the wrapper take the candy out and bite into it you won't be disappointed. The chocolate won't be flimsy and it won't be hollow. Most of all it will taste like chocolate, not some bland artificial chocolate flavor. I'm going to make candy to celebrate all holidays. Labor Day candies representing different jobs. Memorial day candies to honor our fallen heroes. Fourth of July fireworks candy. But you know what I really want to make? Huge chocolate bunnies that are solid.