# "Holidays" by Brian Lowe

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IvVspyAuZk6dvLSrthnQDrSYEGSLLSqNQn31wMF6Hso/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2015

**"Holidays" by Brian Lowe**

What is a holiday? I have heard of that; it is a put together form of “Holy Day(s).” It sounds close enough so real that I believe it. Most of our biggest holidays are religious or based off of religious celebrations. Valentine’s Day after the death of Saint Valentine; Easter after the fertility gods of our pagan forebearers, rabbits and eggs, but stolen by Christians; Christmas, the biggest holiday of all, originally celebrating the birth of the sun god also stolen by Christians but which is now just a commercial exploitation day.

Then there are the other holidays that are bringing together of our countrymen. Independence Day, where we shrugged out from our domineering parent’s thumb; Mother’s and Father’s Day, where we show our love for our parents; Veteran’s Day where we show our gratitude and appreciation to those who have served our country through military service; just to name a few.

There are so many holidays in this day and age that you can pick and choose your own set of days to honor or celebrate. And each religious and ethnic group has its own set as well, different from the mainstream.

My very own favorite and most supreme holiday is not recognized or celebrated by anyone except for me. Can you guess what it is? My birthday! It only really matters to me. It is the day that through whatever paths and variances, I came into being. And even though this momentous occasion is nothing special to most, it is my very own “king for a day,” at least in my own little world! Plus it just plain feels good to be special, even if it is only one day of the year. I guess I could say I am thankful I wasn’t born on Leap Day.

My next favorite holiday is really a category of holidays, the ones that my children and family love: Christmas for presents, Easter for egg hunts and candy, Valentine’s Day for cards and chocolate, and Halloween for costumes and candy. And you cannot forget Thanksgiving as a time of great food and family bonding.

I believe that holidays are mainly a source of unity for a group of people. It brings them together and gives them a sense of identity as a nation, country, religious or ethnic group. And this unity promotes all manners of attitudes and beliefs that help them form a cohesive whole as a distinct group. This provides them with a shared cultural background rich in what they believe is the right way.

Today, in this matter, as people have more access to knowledge and other cultures, it is possible to take what you see are the good parts of many different systems and create the right one for you. This has already happened in the past to create every social system and religion, except that they absorbed this knowledge and practices over centuries and millennia. Now it is at a much faster rate of decades or year years.

Why wouldn’t you take the best, disregard the worst, and generalize or specialize the rest to get an eclectic system that works better and has better results, and with the advance of science and technology, we have so much more to learn and pass on and actually have proof of its veracity. You no longer have to blindly follow superstitions, myths, and legends, but have historical and archeological accounts, histories we can now translate, and a better understanding of how life and nature work.

All of this we express through the choice of what holidays we promote and partake in celebration of; most people do so without consciously realizing it and by raising their children with it, they pass it on to future generations where it will be built upon even more to fit new times and needs, all with its primary purpose of holding together and unifying a group left intact.

So pretty much what I am saying is that holidays are a social tool, which no matter how much they change, they still have the same purpose and that as such are a major part of social fabric, no matter the culture or religion. That is why many people celebrate holidays they do not understand or even believe in and why commercial exploitation of these holidays only binds people together more.

Holidays are fun and sometimes stressful, but the meaning behind them, no matter how lost in obscurity, will still work under unification and will be perpetuated until even our modern descriptions are no more. They are a part of human nature we cannot give up.

Now if I can just get my birthday its own spotlight on the calendar, I would be set. Too bad there is already another holiday on its day, Columbus Day.