# "How Not to Burn" by Catherine LaFleur

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 08 - August
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eWVgv7m1YXwp8wNO9YG35E6yoDh9maPlr4K_grKkJcg/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**“How Not to Burn” by Catherine LaFleur**

Prison is not a nice place. Even Camp Prisoney Land, where I am incarcerated, can be a difficult dark environment. As an institution prison is full of sexualized violence against women through intimidation, rape, harassment, and other forms of misogyny. When you spend a significant amount of time in prison, you begin to notice a particular look on the female inmate’s faces. An anxious, closed look, as if we are frightened by something but can’t talk about it. And you can’t talk about it. Because to take any of the available remedies is to mark yourself out for further attention.

The resulting stress in my own life caused me to burn. A constant fire was lit in my belly and this induced anger, rage, and a desire for vengeance. Men rape you with force but women rape with words and emotional manipulation. Everything became a personal attack and I fought back. The proper scale of things tilted askew and reality was slowly shredded. As a person of French and Scottish descent, these desires whip me into hotheaded tempers. I couldn’t go on living this way. And I didn’t want to continue to be that person.

At some point, I decided I don’t want to feel bad. I don’t want to feel angry. I don’t want to feel like a victim. I don’t want to be heartbroken. Growing up in a Christian religious cult where you were not allowed to have feelings that weren’t pretty did not prepare me for life. Everyone said or implied that dark feelings were not accepted. That you weren’t really a solid Christian if you had dark feelings, in fact, you might be possessed by a demon and in need of an exorcism. Even then I had a lot of dark feelings. I tried all my life to run away from them, but old wounds chased me until I ended up in prison.

Eventually I found some measure of peace to take me through life on the inside. These are a few of the things that keep me calm. To start, learning how to breathe and meditate is helpful to maintaining calm. If you haven’t taken classes on breathing then you are probably doing it wrong. I took the Prison Smart Program, which is offered around the country to incarcerated people. I learned that my emotions are attached to my rate of breathing. Any female who has been through Lamaz labor coaching can tell you this, but I never thought to apply it to my daily life.

The program teaches rhythmic breathing cycles that help to calm you. I developed a specific intention, with this breath I choose peace, with this breath I choose freedom. I learned how to meditate. Taking the Siddha Meditation program, also offered nation-wide in prisons, provided a lot of information on how to do this. Guru Maya taught me to chant “Om Namah Shivaya” and how to find the still spaces inside of me. This led to meditative walking, as there is a track here. Sometimes I can spend an entire afternoon walking. Not talking to another, not listening to the radio. Just walking. It takes three miles to clear my mind.

Reading books, uplifting novels and genuine life stories, both helped and entertained me. Reading these helped me to empathize with characters and place myself in their shoes. Soon I began to have empathy for others. I got a job as a law clerk helping people with their cases, and was assigned to be the legal aide in the SHU. Helping people who are in a worse situation than yourself keeps you humble and mindful.

I also became a part of the Alternatives to Violence Community. This is a program I have worked within for years. Learning how to tap into the Transforming Power is life changing. Using tools of Expecting the Best, Respecting Yourself, Caring for Others, Thinking Before Reacting, and Asking for a Non-Violent Solution. For years I’ve been working on the exercises in the AVP manual with the other facilitators. Some of whom are completely annoying and obnoxious, still I work the exercises.

The opportunity to practice these ideas in my daily life has changed me on a fundamental level.I’ve learned how to actively listen, how to place myself in someone else’s shoes, and how to release my anger in a non-violent way. My anger has slowly dissipated.

Sometimes the loneliness and isolation of prison becomes too much. Cruelty is not a personality trait, it’s a habit. I started feeding the cats and luring them to lie in my lap where I would comb and pet them. Their purring is hypnotic. Petting soft creatures makes your heart rate go down and lowers your blood pressure. I volunteer to babysit dogs, Golden Retrievers and Labs, from the service dog program. Lying in a field of grass and being licked by dogs on your palms and the soles of your feet is infinitely more enjoyable than the Old Testament would lead you to believe. Throwing the ball is therapeutic. Feeding the ducks and their ducklings is also soothing. They are like an adoring fan club and it’s funny to see them run waddling on webbed feet running to a bread crumb fest. Animals are always happy to see you.

Lastly, I started writing. There have been two writing programs here Artspring and Exchange4change. But Prisoner Express was the first program I started with. Prisoner Express is still one of the most important parts of my life. I usually stick to creative non-fiction about my life. The writing prompts are therapeutic and help me to put the past in perspective. Writing is an exercise in which you, the writer, want to be known and to tell your story. It creates emotional intimacy with other people. The readers of Prisoner Express may know more about me than many of my friends and family. And I feel I know some of them in the same way. I enjoy reading the essays. Every time a packet comes, I stay up late in the night reading. I feel like I am part of a community that is helping me to become a better writer. But again that is what happens when you write. You become known to others. No matter how impersonal you try to make your writing the truth about yourself leaks out around the edges. Being a part of this community, writing about both the pain and the farce of my existence brings calm.

And on that note I would like to thank the two gentlemen who complimented my writing/ Also, in no particular order, a short list of writers I have enjoyed reading but by no means the whole list. Thank you Mr. Matthew Tomlinson for your amusing story No Grace, but did you have to kill Midnight, the dog? Thank you to Ms. Shannon Guess Richardson for your brave story about pregnancy in prison. Thank you to Ms. Kwaneta Harris for your amazing Brown Baby story from 2016. And last thank you to J. Bauhaus for your biker stories, to Bobby Bunderson for his Toy story and to Cesar Hernandez for your many flash pieces, my favorite of which is an older one about the meaning of Security that I have taped to my locker lid. Thanks to all the many other writers whom I have enjoyed and still enjoy reading. I am honored to be included in the anthologies with you.