# "I Could be Wrong" by Eric Hassel

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 11 - November
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A97xj-FgETdh-fGuTgHbLrtcBSXdZ0XwuFReQCRHaXc/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**“I Could Be Wrong…"**

The dichotomy of the law has continued to baffle me at times. How can an Agency responsible for detaining offenders of the law, enforce and break the laws at the same time? Within the state of Georgia, onw of these the United States of America, the Department of Corrections (D.O.C.) is breaking Federal laws and has done so its entire existence! As proof I offer the following evidence; The D.O.C. pays the Federal fines associated with the laws they are currently violating. Criminals housing/punishing criminals. Two such Federal crimes to which the D.O.C. currently admits

1. The state of GA does not pay its inmates who perform work for the institutions. Prison industries which generate millions of dollars, do so with slave labor. The D.O.C. has continued to pay the Federal fines rather than give the workers (slaves) a stipend as the other 49 states do.
2. The GA D.O.C. violates Federal law by allowing (forcing) 3 people to populate a cell designed for at most 2 persons. “Triple ceiling” also costs the D.O.C annual fines which they willingly pay rather than adhere to laws of country and humanity.

Another frustrating situation involves Institutions violating their own establishing rules and regulations. Standard Operating Procedures (S.O.P) are clearly defined as are punishments for violations of the S.O.P. The S.O.P. is utilized to punish offenders within the institution, though fails to address violations by staff and Administration on a daily basis. This double standard leads to animosity and non-compliance by inmates who regularly witness staff go unpunished for repeatedly violating the rules. One example; several officers for years were committing crimes which finally came to light when the offending officers were arrested and fired after a federal investigation uncovering money laundering and scamming involving millions of dollars being stolen from the public. More officers than inmates were charged and prosecuted. Another example; Officers have been arrested in large numbers for importing contraband into the prisons where they’re employed. Cell phones, marijuana, methamphetamine, cocaine, heroin, tobacco, liquor, weapons and ammunition are a small sampling of the offenses committed by those entrusted with employment to uphold the public confidence by adhering to the law. This hypocritical behaviour is prevalent throughout the nation - I point out Georgia’s deficiencies because that’s who currently houses me.

I realize our nation suffers from similar acts of malfeasance as the ones I witness here. The United States incarcerates its adult population at a higher rate per capita than anywhere in the world! For the nations captors to be as complicit in illegal activities as those they enslave is ludicrous. The erosion of our nation’s harmonious existence (if there ever has been harmony) is evident by the youth entering the prison systems in staggering numbers. My hypothesis is that the youth, missing the influence of one or both parents due to incarceration is the harbinger of this negative trend in the U.S. societies nationwide. The minority communities are hardest hit as the are the most heavily subjected to incarceration, though minorities commit roughly the same amount of offenses per capita as the caucasian majority. Crooked judiciary, biased juries have caused our system of “justice” to reflect a “just us” mentality. “Just us”, minorities being railroaded by the courts, “just us” caucasians escaping punishment. Police killings on video has revealed a disturbing trait of minorities being murdered without the perpetrator being punished. Where does this insanity end? I haven’t a clue, though I suspect a large rift developing which will devour the offending parties. Universal (karmic) laws have a way of balancing the scales as history has shown in the past. Are we too blind to see that we cannot, should not, continue along the same paths of injustice and intolerance which led to deadly revolutions in the past? I pray we become more honorable, All of us! I could be wrong.