# "Intuition" by Joseph Alvin

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MQWDtK1nc9_zmKGHw2HAlTIhT53IUJHWfSFrnwlf_6o/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Intuition” by Joseph Alvin**

Unfortunately, I have to relate everything I experience to the penitentiary and my incarceration in it. And so here I am today incarcerated here in prison, but in the blink of an eye the parole board can set me free. But as of today, March 4, 2018, I have received five one year set offs, but yet I still believe that in the blink of an eye I could be up and out of here. How about you? What do you believe could happen to you in the blink of an eye? Rumor has it that if you believe then you can achieve. I’m so way tired of my predicament and I’m sure you are as well. We’re just existing to do this time, not knowing when, if ever at all, we will be released. How much time do you have? What were you charged with? They arrested me for a burglary. This was my seventh trip to prison and all except one were for burglary. I allowed myself to become chemically dependent which dictated that I needed to commit a burglary so that I could steal some commodities to sell so that I could spend the money to acquire more drugs. Before you knew it, in the blink of an eye, I was hooked for life and now I’m sitting in prison. What led you here? What illegal activities were you involved in? In the blink of an eye, you could find the city police breathing down your trail. In the blink of an eye you were sitting in the back of a police cruiser car, huh? If only we could have experienced another diversion, we most likely would not have committed that illegal activity. In the blink of an eye, I was sentenced to twenty-five years in the Texas Department of Criminal Justice. In the blink of an eye, I came to the realization that I was tanked. I’ve been locked up for a total time now of five years. How about you, how long have you been on lock? Do you look to be released one day or have you just given up and lost all hope of ever making parole? As for me, I’m praying and keeping hope alive. I believe that in the blink of an eye, I could be on that Blue Bird bus on my way to somewhere. You just know that. Call it intuition. It’s really not that very hard to do. Do you know the technique of visualization? In the blink of an eye, just think about it and meditate on it. See it in your mind’s eye. Believe that good things are going to come to pass because life has endless possibilities. In the blink of an eye everything can turn around and work for your good. Yes, sometimes bad things will happen to us and for us that’s called life. Trust in God and fervently pursue a loving relationship with Him. Do you ever do that, or do you just pretend and go through the motions?