# John Naylor

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fdREI-8KMrs9H9iZBPNxE48c-H424hOrqVyRZp9UR9o/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: Yes
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by John Naylor**

When people think of a first job, they think of uniforms and taxes on a pay stub. That scenario wasn’t my first job. Odd jobs and allowance chores are really our first jobs. I grew up in rural central Indiana where there wasn’t cable or internet, and when you’re surrounded by trees and fields, it’s not hard to get your chores done. Also, my brother and I were homeschooled. Because I didn’t have to wait on other students, I could wake up, knock the work out, and finish much earlier than I would in a public or private school. The world around you becomes an aspect of the classroom. Even chores seemed to be a sneaky way of a hidden lesson like homework. We tried to keep a positive attitude. Once in a while, there’d be an extra credit choice. Our mom kept a car or pottery container for quarters, and she’d call out for a volunteer to do a “quarter job” which could be anything from running some laundry up and downstairs to maintaining the cat’s litter box in the garage. We would save up our quarters for when we went to town to buy treats, play video games, buy BBs for our rifles, or bargain hunt at the strawtown auction and flea market on Thursdays.

Our spendings may seem weird, but we were taught God’s word and will for our lives. We knew what He wanted for our lives, even when we didn’t live up to it. We learned and experienced things public school kids never would or could. In some ways, I developed into more of a man with character traits and work ethics that are uncommon, at least in modern society. I didn’t have all the money from childhood summer jobs that my church friends did. It could make me drool at times, but you could buy so many rifles, shotguns, outdoor gear, and things. They blew money on junk food and getting hustled by friends and society. They wouldn’t want what I wanted to buy, or their city slicker parents wouldn’t let them have it. This showed me a few things like while I couldn’t have all those girls to spend time with like the public school kids did, I wasn’t berated by authority figures that I wasn’t related to. And I had taste in rural living, our sacred culture, and heritage as white Americans. How much does a quarter job pay? A heck of a lot more than a quarter.