# "Keeping Calm" by Kathren Garcia

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 08 - August
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TLdcThJsEXAGxt44kmaJWtANU6qYup3UgAS1lMS2rCQ/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Keeping Calm by Kathren D. Garcia**	

This is my story about keeping calm.

I am a Licensed Racehorse Trainer for more than 21 yrs. I have been in the horse business all my life. I have been graced with a gift; people call it a “Horse Whisper ''. With that being said, here is one of many stories keeping calm.

As a trainer, I buy and sell all types of horses. I bought a yearling (one year old) from a sale. He was a little bit wild, but began calming clowns I work with. Months later had a long way to go. A man called me one day and said, I have a racehorse I want to sell or trade. I said, “Well ok, I have a yearling, I would be willing to trade.” The race horse was unraced but broke and had been training at the racetrack already, “I said,” good trade for me. I loaded this yearling in a 4 horse stock trailer and I turned him loose. Usually a horse alone in a trainer travels well untied. However I left his halter on him. A halter is a device used to control and lead the horse. I closed the trailer door and I had tied the middle door inside the trailer with wire. This door divides in the middle to keep two horses in front and two in the back of the trailer if needed. It’s something I have done many times before. I proceeded around six or seven miles from home and the trailer started shaking and pulling the truck like that yearling was panicking in the trailer. I pulled over and I opened the trailer every so slightly to observe he’d gotten in trouble. He got his halter caught on the lever of the open middle door and panicked. He shut the door with his halter and hung himself in the closed locked latch. I was terrified that he would break his neck because of how hard he was Pulling as he was sitting on his back. With him setting and pulling his weight down preventing me from opening the latch. I did not panic! I said to myself “think”. There’s a side door in the front where he was, so I opened it and tried to soften him forward Towards the latch.. He panicked more and flipped over, pushing his front hoof through two small metal openings on the trailer. Now his head still hung in the latch while his front leg was stuck in the metal panel. If he were to even make one move he could have snapped his leg off. Did I panic? No! I prayed for someone to come along with a knife or something sharp to cut the halter free. I am in the country; a rural road, all the sudden a white old pickup is in view. I flag him down. It's an old mexican man. I say, “Sir, do you have a knife?” I very, very, slowly cut the halter off, it was hard to do because it was so tight. I was sweating, talking to this poor horse and so scared. I was able to calmly free his head. Now he’s just hanging by his leg and it is so tight between the metal openings in the trailer. I start to fear the worst. I had to somehow spread those big metal openings. I thought about the small car jack I had in the back of my truck. I ran back there and grabbed it. Wow! It fit perfect between the metal openings. I took the crowbar and started turning the jack and it started to open. As soon as it was open enough, I pushed his hoof as hard as I could and his leg went back in the trailer and he stood up. I kept calm somehow because if I hadn’t, the horse would have sensed my fear, things would have turned out bad. I traded him that day. I thank the Lord for keeping me calm.