# "Lack of" by Keith Costa

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oty-s_RbVJeJY55Qsvi_MXVSBahgl8Sk2I9-l-CB39E/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Lack of by Keith Costa**

****Gratitude is the key to happiness! It seems borderline absurd that life could be reduced to such a simple notion. The search for one’s happiness seems elusive, if possible at all. Even when one reaches their goal, satisfaction is fleeting. With that crossed off their list, one will immediately focus on their next hurdle.

This advice is not pouring out from a wise individual. Frankly I’m the opposite. Through the gutters and failures I’ve turned inward and learned this universal truth. Instead of constantly worrying about what you do not have, have gratitude for all that you do have. Be thankful. Be positive.

Sure, many can say it sounds corny, but is being happy corny? If so, then I’m super corny.

Gratitude could be “I’m glad to only get 13 ½ years of prison instead of life.” I’m grateful the cops did not shoot me while I struggled to pull my firearm. I’m grateful to have my family in my life. I’m grateful I’m in the best level, working the best job in my yard. I could go on and on but I do not want to appear corny.

Seeking happiness from others or from possessions is temporary. Therefore when it leaves you, you will be unhappy. Why seek happiness from anywhere outside of yourself. Turn inwards. You do not need anyone or anything to be happy.

You are perfect as you are. Flaws and all. Be secure in who you are and know that others’ opinions of you are reflections of how they see themselves. It’s in actuality, not about you at all.

Have gratitude for your existence. With gratitude, anything is possible.