# Leo Dismas

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YOGrUFxXMv-rzucDg4wwmMqXzqAss-yV46HGpSuTHSw/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: Yes
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by Leo Dismas**

****If I were to survive my big, I needed to hustle. I had no interest in getting a real job washing dishes or mopping floors for less than a dollar a day. If your people aren’t steady putting money on your books, you have to find some way to keep your box full. I was hell bent on keeping myself living well. There are many hustles in the joint, some illegal, but most just against regulations.

There’s everything from the boring barber hustle ($2 per cut, $5 per month) or laundry hustle (50% per wash, $5 per month, unlimited washes) to the more extreme store hustle (selling commissary at a two for one mark-up) or the booty hustle ($10-$20 per date, up to $200 per month live-in concubine), but none of them felt like the right fit. There are also industry jobs, but they’re hard to come by and harder to keep. Though they pay well ($300-$500 per month, a fortune relative to the prison economy), you need to be an ideal inmate and keep a squeaky clean record. When I tried to get a regular job and industry job, I was told it’d be a 1-2 year waitlist. Until then, I was going to need more than a measly $10/month to pay for some coffee and toiletries (about $20-$30/month spending).

Fortunately, my hustle found me. Upon my arrival, I purchased a typewriter because I aspired to become a writer. Since it’s impossible to keep anything discrete in prison (we gossip more than my grandmother’s knitting group), word got around and I soon had a steady group of folks asking me to type something for them: letters $1/page, legal paperwork $2/page, greeting cards $0.50/page, etc.. I chose which jobs I wanted to take and with whom I wanted to work. I worked at my own pace and chose my own pay-scale. The job has drawbacks, like collections and picky clients, but overall, it’s a near-ideal situation. In the world, I was working stiff for the man and never felt quite happy or satisfied with my job. Coming to prison made me realize that I really wanted to be an entrepreneur and to work for myself. The irony is palpable. It’s only now that I realize that my first “real” job was a hustle in prison.