# "Lost" by Michael Pitman

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1g2WUqf49ku8rdIKN9eUFwVQR6Kq4TUIQYNp2JU31Nmc/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by Michael Pitman**

Heading south on the parkway to connect with the NY State Thruway, my wife and I were enjoying the scenic drive on the “no commercial vehicles” roadway. The offramp for the thruway was about 20 miles from our starting point, and it was well marked and identified long before coming up to it. The Hudson River off to our left, clear sky above, heading south on a good interstate road in the morning hours of a Saturday. We left our house around 8AM, and we approached the turnoff at 8:40AM. Our estimated time of arrival at our destination was 12 noon--we never made it.

The next thing either of us knew, we were well south of the off ramp, heading north back toward our starting point. The Hudson River to our right, and the same easy traffic with the same clear sky, but the time is now 11:45AM! Not only did we somehow turn around, we lost 3 hours! Neither of knew what happened: we were completely bewildered then suddenly tired.

We pulled off at a diner to get coffee and discuss what had just happened to us. We had no answers, and the mystery got deeper when we found that the gas gauge still indicated almost full, and so there was no chance we drove that long. We did not do drugs, were not drinking. There were no “bright lights” other than the sun and no memory of anything other than approaching the bend of the turnoff until “coming to” the northbound side of the parkway.

This happened 40 years ago, and I can recall this mystery as if it were yesterday!