# "My Body - My Temple" by Vicki Hicks

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 12 - December
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w5p3jXVQP43BHtU6MIGFHWdfJMAKL7vreSRh4Tl70n4/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**My Body - My Temple by Vicki Hicks**

My story goes back to Easter 2004. After church my family packed lunch and went out to the ranch to do some cleanup and horseback riding. The horse of choice that day was Sugar Babe, a flea bitten appaloosa. I saddled her up and took her for a quick spin to warm her up for the kids. My husband was pressure washing the shed at the same time. I was in great shape wearing a size 4 weighing about 125 pounds. I mounted Sugar Babe about the time the pressure washer surged and off to the races we went. Sugar Babe thought she was in the Kentucky Derby. I was holding on for dear life until she got to her favorite spot in the pasture. The spot was half way down the property line. When she decided she had enough she reared up and spun on her rear hooves turning her rear end end throwing me into the barbed wire fence. I went flying one way and she went the other. I got myself up.My glasses were nowhere to be found. I began walking and tried to raise my right arm only to find that it was not moving at all. I passed out. My husband picked me up and got me to the hospital where it was discovered that my arm was broken clean in half. I tell you that because the pain was so great that I went into a deep depression afraid to leave the house for fear someone would bump into me. The doctor did a bad surgery and I had to have three subsequent surgeries. 10 years later I realized that through my depression and many hours of therapy I let my body go. I now weighed 181 pounds. Once very active now I stayed in the house and ate. In 2014 I decided to do something to help myself. I joined the biggest loser at the local YMCA. A 12 week program of not only exercise but a total lifestyle change, Monday, Wednesday, Friday 5:00am workouts, label reading, swimming, Tuesday and Thursday nights kickboxing. Saturday morning 5K’s. All things I said I would never be able to do. After the 12 week session I came in third place losing 30 pounds and many inches. I went from a size 18 to a size 9. I wasn’t about to stop there. I signed up for bootcamp at the same YMCA and continued running and working out until I was arrested. I weighed 138 pounds in county and came to prison at 147 pounds. I am now back at running and watching what I eat and just weighed in at 132 pounds. I tell you this story because just when you think there is no hope for your body, think again. No matter if you are in the free world or in prison your body is your temple and you need to take care of your body. It is the only one you will find that will be less depressed if you release the endorphins that come with exercising and running.