# "My Parents" by Micheal McKinney

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 01 - January
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1e7xLjHUnN1mizUefzWoioR0cuLAzUUODGCLDDTCW8Rs/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**My Parents By Micheal McKinney**

My Parents is a touching topic and a good topic. I had much love for both of my parents. My father was taken away from me through gun violence when I was very young. And my father had just got out of Prison from doing time up in Alabama Prison. My father, big Mike, and my mother Marilyn, met each other while they were teenagers. My father big Mike, was from Attalla Alabama, and my mother Marilyn, was from Tampa Florida and my father big Mike, had a sister named Doris, who was staying in Tampa Florida in the same neighborhood Marilyn, and her family was staying in Tampa Florida. And big Mike used to come down from Alabama to spend the summer with his Doris, and one day he saw Marilyn, up to the neighborhood park, and the first time big mike ever laid eyes on Marilyn, it was like love at first sight, so in big Mike mind he said he had to have marilyn, but at that time Marilyn, was deep into playing sports and going to school, she was not trying to get caught up into a relationship. So when big mike was trying to make a move on Marilyn, Marilyn was never giving in to big mike. And little that Marilyn knew, big Mike was not going to keep going for that,. So one day big Mike, saw Marilyn, up to the Neighborhood Park and this time big Mike, had a trick up his sleeve and had told Marilyn that his sister Doris, had wanted her. So Marilyn had left the Neighborhood Park and went around to Doris' house and Marilyn was calling for Doris, and Doris told her she was in the backyard hanging up clothes. So Marilyn went out back where Doris was and went to help Doris, hang up clothes and even though Doris, did not call for Marilyn, they went to talking. And just that fast big Mike, had done made his way around to his sister Doris, house and he went in the front door of Doris, house and went into Doris, room and got a shotgun and went out the back door of Doris, house into the back yard where Doris, and Marilyn, was and Doris, thought big Mike, had done lost his mind and he had told Marilyn, to come into the house with him so she did so and Doris, was yelling at big Mike, saying you better not hurt Marilyn, so big Mike, went into the back bedroom and lock the door. And while in the room he talked Marilyn, into having sex with him. And this was the first time Marilyn, had sex with anyone. And she came up pregnant with me. And Doris, had called up to Alabama, and told her mother Inez, and her father James Mckinney, what her brother big Mike, had done and they was make at big Mike and Marilyn, family was mad at big Mike, and everyday Marilyn, oldest brother Charlie Lee AKA Cold Dog and Big Mike, was fighting about this everyday, then they ended up becoming best of friends and Marilyn, went back to Alabama with big Mike, because his parents wanted to meet Marilyn. And that’s where she had me at. And she came up pregnant again in 11 months and 3 weeks after Marilyn, had me she had my little brother Sedrick. And Marilyn, and big Mike, and got married up in Alabama.