# "Night Lights" by Justin Hattaway

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l_rxqMOkKZW8MC21P93gPIDSBwMRwMOPeHx7L_uDLGI/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2015

**"Night Lights" by Justin Hattaway**

The noise was indescribably loud. Deafening! I remember that clearly. After a blast we would have to wait a while to attempt to converse with each other for fear that we would speak too loud and unknowingly give away our hiding spot. We knew what would happen if we were to get caught. Death! I feared more for Mai-Ling and Tu-huong than I did for myself. We had already lost my mother, Saipae, from a bullet wound she has sustained from a Viet-Cong soldier. After she had returned fire and killed the devil, she told us that it was only a flesh wound, a graze, and that the pain was bearable. “I’ll make it,” were the words she used… She lied. We found shelter in a latrine trench under the cover of darkness and remained deathly silent, scared senseless. It was during the third or fourth blast when, from the blaze, I saw her face and realized that she was gone. I don’t think it had really sunk in until days later, that Tu-huong and I were now motherless. Saipae, a hard-working thirty four year old mother of two, had taken her last breathe in a trench filled with shit and piss. I didn’t want to leave her body there but I knew that there were no other options. God rest her soul. We finally started to crawl forward slowly. Inching, almost. Every time a blast struck we would be able to see a few yards ahead of us and we knew that no one would be able to hear our splashing during the thunderous roaring, so we took advantage of the opportunity and crept along. It felt like it took days, when in reality, no more than an hour and a half went by. Another blast. Another sky-high funnel, slithering into the sky like a monstrous dragon. It lit the next several yards. Suddenly, not even five yards away, there was a movement in the tall grass growing along the side of the trench. I had to blink a couple times to make sure that my mind wasn’t playing tricks on me. It wasn’t. I couldn’t be. Still, I turned to look at Mai-Ling to ask if she had seen it also. From her wide-eyed stare and gaping mouth, I knew that she had. No questions were needed. I jerked my head back around toward the area that the movement had come from but couldn’t see anything. The blaze had died down and my eyes had adjusted to the bright light. Now that it had gone away, it was harder to see than it had been before the blast. Come on dragon, where are you when I need you? But before we could turn to flee, another light shone on us, but not the light from the explosions, a beam of some sort. A flashlight! We had been spotted by whoever was hiding in that grass! I turned to Mai-Ling to push her and Tu-Huong back towards the way we had come from, but a voice suddenly rang out, “Little girl, stop! I’m American. I won’t hurt you!” Of course, I had no idea what he had said; I didn’t speak English. But I understood one word. American. We froze. I didn’t know what to do! He called out once more, “I’m American… I won’t hurt you.” I turned back to him and for a long period of time we just stood there, staring into each other’s eyes. Finally, I said, “American… I am Vietnam. No Cong… No Charlie.” He sort of laughed a little at that and I became more confused than to begin with. He gestured for us to come toward him and we obeyed. I didn’t know if it was the sincere look in his eyes or just sheer lunacy on our part, but we trusted this foreign stranger. The next few days were a blur. Being taken to the American Army base in Saigon, being placed in a bunkhouse with beds and real sheets and blankets, talking to the American Embassy, and finally being taken to a small village in South Vietnam and set up in our own shack. Everything flew by; I was just so relieved to be safe, to be with my family. Well, except for Saipae. Over the many, many years since then, I’ve been back to that area where we crawled through that latrine and many memories always flood my mind. The stench from the human excrement, the look on Saipae’s face after she had passed, the fear for my family… It’s like it was just yesterday. I can’t really pinpoint where exactly we had to leave Saipae’s body but I always bring flowers and place them at some familiar site. Tiger Lilies, her favorite. I wish that I could know for sure that she had had a proper burial, but I guess sometimes it’s better to not know some things. Either way, my mother saved our lives that night. I’ll always be thankful for that and remember her for the hero she was.