# "Not A Dry Eye" by Michael L. Thomas

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 06 - June
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xq1tRI2b4VRoG0GYocqPRNygzflqdkOliRf-UzeB138/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**Not A Dry Eye** **by Michael L. Thomas**

During a rough spell in the relationship between my ex-wife and I, it was a constant debate and verbal battle over my daughter, our daughter, and who was to be the custodial parent. My ten year old daughter, who at the time seemed to be the older adult in this situation, often felt that we were acting childishly, and that her love and time could be equally spread between my ex, Julie, and I.

Although our daughter was right, as adults we felt that we needed a legal authority to decide who would be the top dog, custodial parent, and who and what shots could be called when it came to our daughter. You would have thought we were in a divorce proceeding attempting to decide who received a prized ocean liner or yacht that we both purchased equally. It was our child for Christsakes, and so after close to a few thousand in court cost, a magistrate decided I would get weekends until my daughter Lisa turned 18.

So there we were, she and I, Mutt and Jeff and our beloved weekends. Imagine a ten year old without rules to get to bed early or dietary constraints, with unlimited ice cream and trips to the movies or to the mall to shop for Barbies and video games, and with often sleepovers at my condo for her and her BFFs (Best Friends Forever). Not to mention allowing her to crank loud pop and rap music in my Dodge Ram pickup truck that I’d often take her on drives to putt-putt golf, explore parks, or just go around town for daddy and daughter time just because we needed to bond and free her from the confines and constraints of weekdays with her mother. Hitler was the secret name she and I gave her mother.

And after our routine, legally sanctioned by the judge, every Friday after work I’d pick up my daughter at her mother’s at 6:30pm. My work as a construction carpenter took me to various work locations doing various forms or stages of construction with many mandated. One week, such a deadline was imminent, and with my precious timeline to pick up my daughter Lisa at stake, I reluctantly vied to work overtime to complete a job with such deadlines as many construction projects have. Unfortunately, and despite working with as much speed and accuracy as I could, I finally got off from work at 8:30, two hours late and a half hour drive away from her mother’s home.

You know the saying, “better late than never”, and never wanting to disappoint my precious little gem, I stormed through weekend traffic this Friday to pick up my beloved daughter. Upon arrival at my ex-wife’s home, my daughter answers the door. As she opens the door, my ex, “Hitler”, is screaming, “Where have you been?” And now my daughter is bawling in tears as she spreads her arms with her cutest summer dress and sandals to give her dad a hug. I say to her, “Sweetheart, what’s wrong?” She says she thought I got hurt and wasn’t coming or something. I quickly explained to her simply that I had to work late. But as I pulled into the driveway of her mom’s house, I noticed a bucket, and being as though it was so late, it didn’t cross my mind that my daughter had prepared to help me wash my work truck as we often did before our weekend outings.

After addressing Hitler, my daughter and I headed out and I told the ex I’d have Lisa back Sunday afternoon as usual. My daughter, still sniffling with tears in her eyes, followed my lead out of the door towards my truck. She said, “Daddy, would you still like to wash your truck?” I said, “No, sweetheart, it’s a bit late.” Well, to my surprise she began crying again and so I quickly changed my tune, got the hose from the side of the house, and wet down my truck. My daughter soon used the bucket of soapy water she had anticipated using to wash my truck earlier and began sponging down the truck’s body. Then all of a sudden, splash! My daughter sneaks around the tailgate of the truck and douses me with the soapy sponge. I then spray her a bit and chase her with the hose. I turn my headlights on because she tries to hide in front of the truck away from the hose’s spray. I circle to cut her off at the hood and splash! She soaks me with the suds and water as she is now laughing her rear off as she says, “I got ya daddy!” At this point, I rush her and pick her up to hug her. We both are now crying laughing and now there’s not a dry eye or anything else dry as we cheerily complete the task of our bonding ritual before we go to a cruise, followed by Pizza Hut, a late movie, and a few video games before my daughter decides it’s night night. That little ten year old, now an adult, is still my pride and joy. And often when I sit back and reminisce on the time we shared and quirky moments that bonded us closely, I begin to tear up and once again there’s not a dry eye.