# "Nourishment" by Walter Hart

Last Updated: February 24, 2021 4:49 PM
Month: 05 - May
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1myjEQRto78uEO0hGUQbIKFzKIGfWmtB3I83302m1xpc/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**Nourishment by Walter Hart**

Everybody changes on the outside… they might get older, fatter, thinner, muscle toned, more stylish, greyer or even sickly… but in order to change on the inside, I mean really change, that usually takes place after something really good happens or something really really bad happens. And in 2012, after being incarcerated for 7 years, I won’t say that I hit rock bottom but I was definitely in the vicinity. A series of events began taking place at a pace that literally overwhelmed me.

My father passed away, my significant other informed me that she would no longer take on the burden of loving a man in prison, I was transferred to a place I didn’t get along with… I hated it. The program, the staff, the inmates and my situation. Somebody for some reason felt he could bully me. Big mistake. He came looking for a monkey and found a gorilla… I hurt him pretty bad… and was placed in administrative segregation, more commonly called ADSEG or “the hole.” Sat in there 6 months waiting to see if the local district attorney would pick up the case, which would mean me getting retried and given 6 more years. He didn’t, but I did have to deal with the punitive damage that the prison had in store for me, time loss of one year good time and me sitting in the hole for 20 months.I wrote every address I had of the remains and residue of my support system and loved ones, but no one wrote back. I was alone. Then as I headed to the shower one day, being escorted by an officer and wearing restraints, a guy hollered at me from his cell, “Give me your name and number and I’ll send it to my prayer circle, some good people so they can pray for you!” I didn’t hesitate, I blurted out my info and thought nothing else of it. Then about a month later I received a manila envelope from a lady in Misslou, Montana. She sent me two stamps, two greeting cards, a couple of crossword puzzles and a nice short letter telling me that she saw sunny days and blue skies in my future.

Her unselfish gesture led to me writing her back, and my return letter led to 18 months of correspondence. I mean genuine, pure, unadulterated high quality conversations, which I prefer over lip service any day. She talked about Pearl Harbor, outliving three husbands, graduating from college, the first one in her family. Outliving a daughter, but currently dealing with a son who was a drug addict and who had robbed her blind. Talked about her youngest son who was her hero, how he took care of her, for she was an elderly woman, 87 years old.

She never sent a photo and I never asked for one, she told me jokes and I did the same in return. I didn’t ask or want to know if she was white, black, hispanic, green or blue, and she never asked me either. A person’s soul has no color or gender, at least that’s how I see it. She saved many of my days, shared a treasure chest of knowledge and wisdom and love with me. She never sent me one dollar, and I never dared to ask her for one either. It wasn’t about that at all, not even a little bit.

Then one fateful day she sent me a letter, one of the shortest ones she ever sent, but that letter had power… the power to make me cry, something I hadn’t done in many many years. She told me how she went to her doctor and learned that she had stage 4 cancer which was spreading rapidly through her body, and as I read the letter I was amazed at her incredible wit and courage. The doctor told her that he wanted to remove a tumor in her head that would surely blind her within two weeks if it was not removed. She told him, “Let’s do it.” He then asked her if there was anyone she wanted him to call in case of an emergency and she told him, “Yeah, another doctor! No reason in calling my family and worrying them to death.” I laughed and cried at the same time. She was my friend in the truest sense of the word.

She said that if the doctor wasn’t a boldfaced liar, then this would probably be the last letter she would ever write. She said that it was a privilege to meet me and she thanked me for all the warm words I wrote her in the winter of her life… thanked me! How could she thank me? The privilege and the pleasure were all mine. She was there for me during my darkest days when I was hovering right above rock bottom, a beautiful person through and through.

I hastily wrote her back, hoping and wishing and praying that she received my words before she passed away… I never heard from her after that, and yes I thought the worst. Then, when I was down to one week left in the hole, one week before going back to the mainline and getting a semblance of privileges and limited freedom I received a letter written on fancy stationery. Not even written, it was typed. The return address was unknown to me, as well as the name. I tore open the envelope and only then did I look on the back of it and noticed what we call a “money stamp. Once a letter lands in the mailroom of a prison it is opened, searched, read, and if any photos or money orders or checks are enclosed they will be taken out, the money orders/checks will be forwarded to the treasurer to be processed and the envelope would be stamped, letting us know that in 30 days once it clears we will have such and such amount of dollars in our prison account. The stamp read $1,500. One thousand and five hundred dollars sent to me in a fancy envelope, but from who?

I began to read the letter, and a guy named Gary explained to me that he was my friend’s son, and that she had passed away, but my letter to her arrived in time and he was able to read it to her in the hospital. He went on to say that one of her requests to him was to send me $1,000 to assist me with commissary. He decided to read all of the letters I had written to her before doing so, and after reading the love and respect and gratitude I displayed to her in our exchanges and seeing how I made his mom happy, he decided to send me $500 dollars of his own money as well. He felt it was the right thing to do. He requested that I not write back and wished me nourishment on my journey. Thank you for listening.