# "Rescued" by Vicki Hicks

Last Updated: March 13, 2021 10:29 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PO0XtHHvasH5WjMX7wSYke4YIDYo_KMgneNOghPORCo/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**Rescued by Vicki Hicks**

This may sound like a cliche to many, but prison rescued me from more than my crime. I have been married 28 years and am actively going through a divorce. Although we had many happy years; most were filled with my keeping quiet when I didn’t agree with something or sitting back and allowing my husband to discipline my son too roughly many times. Had I not come to prison, I would still be trapped in a marriage that was making me lose myself one day at a time. Sometimes it was to the point where if we were arguing and I spoke up, my husband would ignore me until I apologized and spoke first. Our children are all grown and have a life of their own and sadly since I was sentenced to prison only one of them still speaks to their father. It feels good when the other two children tell me that I was the backbone that held our family together. “None of them can plan anything even as simple as Thanksgiving Dinner,” says my son. It is crazy when you have time to sit down and reflect on the past. You realize how unhappy your life was, but at the time it was amazing and I guess the good highlights (high school graduation, baths, weddings, careers) all have one thing in common: three beautiful children we raised. If we never had children would we have found happiness together? Probably not. I did and do take my vows seriously, but when you are just not enough for your husband anymore and he finds comfort with your sister and turns his back on you, it is time to move on. Prison has taught me that. Therefore, it has rescued me from misery for the rest of my life.