# "Rescued" by Walter Hart

Last Updated: March 10, 2021 8:21 PM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/10RQ4pBHbTNqS3MzRncyWDqBS-PW36C_X8kFMIK-m9gc/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**Rescued by Walter Hart**

Thomas was awakened by a neighbor’s dog barking hysterically, it had to be one of the many stray cats that dotted his suburban block. It must have had the misfortune of dropping into his next door neighbor’s backyard and awakened the German Shepherd.

His wife snored next to him, oblivious of the noise. He looked over at the alarm clock, it was 5:01… 29 minutes before his daily “get up” time. He walked toward the bathroom, performed his morning ritual, took a dump, washed his face, shaved, brushed his teeth. The dog continued to bark, then it whimpered and the barking stopped. Had the cat won? No way…

He made his way to the kitchen, filled the coffee pot, and then he saw the shadows in his own backyard. He tiptoed to the kitchen’s window which faced the backyard and saw two men, dressed in black, wearing masks, creeping towards his home. A third man was coming over his neighbor’s brick wall. So it wasn’t a cat after all, but what would they be coming to his home for? He was a retired principal of the local high school, his wife was a manager at Walmart. One of the men made eye contact with him and then slowly raised an automatic handgun and pointed at him.

Thomas was awakened a second time by a neighbor’s dog barking hysterically. He looked over at the alarm clock, it was 6:01 … 29 minutes before his daily “get up” time. This time he softly raised his mattress and grabbed his 9mm glock pistol. He looked over at his wife; she snored next to him. He quietly got out of bed and headed to the kitchen; he had morning breath and needed to take a dump, but his morning ritual would have to wait. This time he looked out of his kitchen window and saw no men. He stepped out into his backyard, deciding to meet his attackers head on and to keep them from entering his home and hurting his dear wife… the dog continued to bark, then it whimpered and the barking stopped. The assumption of a stray cat was out the window. This was a do or die situation. He positioned himself behind one of his lawn chairs and took aim. The first man stealthily came over the wall, then the second man; he squeezed the trigger and reflected on his hours at the gun range, hitting bullseyes on paper targets silhouetted with the top half of a man’s body. The men were completely surprised and both were shot multiple times. Both bodies dropped in heaps, the third man never came over the wall, and not only after that, the peace of the early morning was broken for a third time as a car could be heard screeching rubber as it pulled off. It had been parked in front of his next door neighbor’s home. Would he come back to take revenge? Would more men come with him? Was this just the beginning of a nightmare? He walked over to where both bodies lay, and he thought of removing their masks but knew that would be a bad idea. Before the idea fully formed, he hurried home to get his phone and call 911.

Then he was awakened by a neighbor’s dog barking hysterically, he checked the alarm clock, it was 6:01 … 29 minutes before his daily “get up” time. His wife snored next to him oblivious of the noise. He reached under the mattress and got his 9mm glock pistol, then without hesitation, hurried out of bed, hurried to his kitchen and removed a large butcher knife from the silverware drawer. The dog continued to bark, he hurried out of his front door, barefoot and in pajamas, morning breath and had to take a dump, needing his morning cup of coffee. He half walked, half ran to a black SUV parked in front of his neighbor’s home. He stabbed all four of the vehicle's tires and hurried back through his front door, through his home, through the kitchen, and out the back door, hurried to the lawn chair, positioned himself  behind it, aimed at the wall and waited. The dog continued to bark, then whimpered and the barking stopped. The first man came stealthily over the brick wall, then the second man. He squeezed the trigger and reflected on his hours at the gun range, hitting bullseye on paper targets silhouetted by an image of the top half of a man’s body. The men were completely surprised and both were shot multiple times. Both bodies dropped in heaps. Thomas hurried back through his home, out the front door, just as the third man ran from his neighbor’s backyard and jumped in the SUV. Thomas made eye contact with him as he started the SUV and attempted to pull off. Thomas raised his pistol, aimed, squeezed, and the last four rounds in his 15 shot clip smashed the front windshield of the SUV as they slammed into the third man’s cheek, forehead, neck, and left eye. Thomas sat down on his lawn - what a beautiful manicured lawn, what a nice quiet neighborhood. What in the hell had just happened? Would he be awakened again by the neighbor’s door barking? Not this time…

He sat on his lawn, some say he was talking to himself as tears streamed down his face, but he was actually talking to God, thanking him. For the next four hours his quiet street was full of police vehicles, coroner’s vehicles, news vans, a helicopter overhead, detectives, neighbors, friends, family members, curious passersby’s, an animal control behile to remove the true hero, that loud ass dog that had been killed. Thomas had been able to change into a pair of jeans, some loafers, and a white button down shirt. The family attorney had arrived an hour later. The skies were blue, not a cloud in the sky - the weather man had predicted an 80F day. His next door neighbor had been contacted at his job and asked to come home. He had just pulled up, but had to park 2 houses down. Someone had the presence of mind to bring in a couple of KrispyKreme donuts, and Thomas ate one and sipped his coffee. Sledgehammers could be heard literally knocking down Thomas’s bedroom wall. A map was found with the home’s address and 1.4 million dollars was secreted in a wall, it had come from an armored car heist years ago. The thief who had killed his coworker and took off with the money had hid the money here years ago. Before his mother had died, and before he went to prison and before the home was sold to Thomas and his wife ten years ago.

Now, the prisoner was on his deathbed, had stage 4 cancer and knew he would never make it home to spend the money - it was a good chance he wouldn’t make it another week. So he told a young prisoner he had been grooming, passing down the tools of the trade. The prisoner had been released only 2 weeks ago. He was the first to come over the brick wall, he was the one who made eye contact with Thomas in his first dream, vision, premonition or whatever it was that had just absolutely saved his life. Thomas used to get premonitions and see things happen before they happened ever since he was a child. He used to share them with his mom and she called it “crazy talk.” So he stopped sharing his visions but he still had them. His great great grandmother had been burned at the stake in Salem, Massachusetts. They say she was a witch - maybe her powers were passed down to him, who knows? But when the detective asked him how in the hell did he have the presence of mind to get out of bed, flatten the getaway driver’s tires, lie in wait for the men to come over the wall, kill two, run to the SUV, barefoot and pajamas, kill the third man with marksman like skill, he smiled and replied, “sir, in all truth, life is a mystery and I wasn’t trying to be history, I truly don’t know how to explain it sir, so I won’t.” The detective looked at Thomas, saw the sincerity, saw that he was scared shitless, but that is what courage is, being brave in the eye of fear.

Thomas’s mother walked up to him during an unguarded moment and whispered “you had a vision, didn’t you?” He shook his head “yes” and she smiled and said, “that was my great grandmother, she rescued you son, she really did.”