# Rick Roghair

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MP855Ag9RpzAAkIs3gOmxDJMBT6U8bCbc0zUJEjY1F4/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by Rick Roghair**

I was 7 on 7-7-67, and in Ojai, California, a 1957 Chevy ran me over. I spent a month in traction, and so 7 is not my lucky number.

A month earlier, school got out, and I was a kid with ADD. No one had stuff like that back then: when you acted up, your medicine was somebody’s foot up your backside. Anyway, I wanted ice cream, toys, what have you, and I told my dad I wanted and needed money. Dad said if I wanted money, do what he did and get a job. I went outside to sulk and thought about how a 7 year old kid could get a job. A lightbulb went off, and I went door to door. Finally, an old gray-haired lady asked what kind of job. I told her whatever I could do to make some money, and so she asked me if I thought I could rake leaves up in the yard. She asked me how much I charged, and I never worked for anyone before so I piped up, “A dime!” She pointed to the garage where the rake was and told me to let her know when I was done. The rake was taller than me and fanned out real wide, but I put her to the task. The leaves would pop out every which way, and this giant rake was sure working me. I was getting nowhere fast, looking around the house. It was a big corner lot and seemed to be growing bigger every time I looked up. Sweat was pouring off my string bean self who was thinking, “A dime! Man, I should have told her a million dollars because it’s going to take a million years.” I looked at the house door and through all the windows to make sure she wasn’t looking at me. I threw the rake from hell down and ran, never looking back. I swore to myself that I’d find easier ways to make money. I’d investigate what labor was worth, and I’d never rake leaves again. Feel pity for the little boy or laugh at the little fool--I know that old lady was never going to catch me.