# River’s End

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xp37pwMfus7Ic5wXuUWOmtjXHUIHK6LGIddmpp3k3jQ/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: Yes
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

***River’s End* by Grady Harris**

I had a blue and black cheetah pattern bike for almost a year. It was my only source of transportation, and I enjoyed long bike rides with my little brother through the German countryside. We lived about a block and a half from the Rhine River and equally as far from the train station in the other direction. Sometimes I would ride down to the river and watch the large cargo ships cruise by. A small graveyard laid a rock’s throw away from the bike trail which was a few feet from the River. Oftentimes, I could see people visiting the headstones of the ones they’ve lost.

In the distance, I could see the night moving across the river’s sky. I got on my bike and turned the corner, almost being struck by a black truck. The guy got out and helped me to my feet, and while my bike wasn’t damaged, I felt a slight bit of pain in my left elbow. “Alles cla,” the young man said. When he noticed that I was American, he said, “Are you K?” At first, I couldn’t understand what he said until he repeated himself. I said yes and noticed the back cab of his truck was filled with stacks of newspapers from the local grocery store.

The guy who almost hit me noticed that I was focusing on the back of his truck. Till this day, I don’t know why I was so concerned with those papers instead of my own safety. The man’s name was Frits Wiessen, and some days later after dropping me off home, he offered me a job delivering papers from his family’s grocery store.

I never had a job before, and my parents thought it would be a good idea. Frits offered me thirty marks, equivalent to around $18, to deliver 200 papers to various homes in the neighborhood each week.

Every Sunday, Frits would drop off two bundles of papers with the following week’s sales at his family’s store. I’ve been to the store several times to pocket some chocolates, pastries, and anything else that was accessible to my brothers and me. Now that I found myself working for the same store I stole from.

My dad woke me earlier than usual to let me know that the papers I was supposed to deliver were on the front porch. I was excited to actually have a job and go to work.

I loaded up about 75 papers and delivered them in a little under an hour. By the time I was finished, I realized that the work wasn’t all that hard. Frits explained to me that the more papers I delivered, the more money I could make. By the third week, I added two more routes to my delivery. Instead of delivering 200 papers, I delivered 600 papers in roughly 6 hours and received 88 marks a week, about $60.

My entire weekend was consumed by paper delivery. I had no time for anything else but work and was already beginning to get tired of responsibility. When I received my check, I couldn’t think about anything else but making more. Another two weeks went by, and I decided to call my boss.

I informed Frits that I wanted to increase my route and needed another 400 papers, bringing my total to a thousand papers. Frits was astonished but apprehensive because in all the years he worked at his parents’ store, no one ever requested a thousand papers to deliver at one time.

For the first week, Frits monitored my progress and made sure I completed my route. It took me damn near the entire weekend, Saturday and Sunday, to complete my route. I tried to employ my little brother, but he quit after 45 minutes worth of hard labor. After about a month of deliveries, I was ready to quit myself.

One weekend while taking a break from my deliveries, I sat at the foot of the Rhine River and watched the many ships drift by. I still had around 200 papers, and the night sky began to blink at the world around me. Sitting there, I wondered why don’t I just dump these last 200 papers into the river? Who’s going to know?

Looking around, I grabbed an arm full and threw them into the river. I watched the once crispy sales paper turn into gray clumps of mush, disappearing under the weight of the water. The following week, I dropped 400 papers into the river after I delivered the other 600 hours earlier. I did this for about 2 months before Frits informed me that he received complaints about customers not receiving their sales paper. I asked who was complaining, and he surprisingly told me who the individuals were: there were 7 people.

By this time, I was now only delivering 200 papers out of the entire thousand and was collecting a check of 350 marks a week plus a 20 mark bonus. At eleven years old, I was making almost $700 a month for two hours of work a weekend.

Now, instead of making a thousand deliveries, I only made 7. My good fortune lasted for almost a year, and by 8 months, Fruits delivered 1300 sales papers to my parents front porch every weekend. The stacks of papers were so abundant that it looked like I was delivering papers all throughout Europe. I didn’t even think there were 1300 people in my small neighborhood, and I was right.

I was blinded by greed, and the river fed my desire beyond reason. One evening while making my weekly delivery to the mouth of the river, I caught a glimpse of something from the corner of my eye. There were wild animals that lived along the river, but for some reason, the image I saw was much larger than any of those animals. Thinking nothing of it, I went home to retrieve the rest of the papers.

Just as I finished throwing the second load into the river, I saw something move quickly out of sight. This time, I thought I saw a person; my heart drop. What if someone saw me. Would they report me? Was it someone visiting graves nearby?

When I returned home, my entire family was waiting outside for me, and so was Frits Wiessen. By the look on my mother’s face, I knew something wasn’t right. As I approached my house, my brother said, “Ohhh, you are in trouble. Mr. Frits saw you dump those papers in the water!”