# "Running Out Of Time" by Clarence Whitaker-Jones

Last Updated: March 15, 2021 7:26 PM
Month: 11 - November
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/17Bue3tZtVjneD5PX1vrqShFlJDZQjEtHmKtyMuD6228/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**Running Out Of Time by Clarence Whitaker-Jones**

I already wrote on this topic in rough draft form From 10:00PM to 2:00AM, approximately now. It’s just another sign how so fast and easily I’m running out of time. As now I try to rewrite my rough draft in a short amount of words instead of the seven pages I previously just wrote exceeding the 800 word limit.

I’ve been running my whole life and I am only 27, feeling like I’d been running the distance of life as a 52 year old. In my first encounters of running, I wasn’t fast and strong enough to outrun a bully who took my allowance money every first of the month, then by the third month, raped me as I was only six at the time. He was twice my size and probably three times my age. After he sexually violated me, he told me not to tell no one or he’ll kill me. Eventually, he told someone and a friend of my dad overheard him. That led the bully’s parents questioning me on if it was true. The bully’s dad read my eyes and could see it happened. The bully was behind his parents shaking his head gesturing for me not to snitch. But with the bully’s pop reading my spoken words through my eyes enough was already said without verbalizing it. Weeks later, the Department of Human Services placed me in foster care. Good thing D.H.S. got me in time. The neighborhood drug dealers did beat that bully up later after the parent questioning. It was only a matter of time before that bully would get his hands on me and kill me.

At my new foster home outside of Philly was a place called Chester. The foster parent soon adopted me as she saw so much potential I could run with. Her name was Aunt Duobie to all her foster kids and me. She put me in the young marines. In that environment, I grew endurance and determination as the Drill Sergeant would yell at me as I ran in place with sweat on my face alongside my platoon. Aunt Duobie added more recreation activities to my life, including Karate and basketball. In Karate, I did various exercises, including running in place with my hands touching my knees. In basketball, suicides was a term where you run and touch the baseline, foul line, 3 point line and half-court line continuously back and forth, trying to beat the other teammates so you won’t be last, as that position got scorn. Aunt Duobie even pushed me academically. For every A I got on my report card, she would give me money. I did so well in school by her encouragement she nicknamed me ‘Ace.’ I turn school into a competition to outdo everyone in my class with good grades. THat led me to having extinguish honor roll with a white girl named Melanie. That meant a lot because I grew up with the logic that white people are smarter than black people, and Melanie was the minority in a predominantly Black classroom.

With good grades and physically in shape, I thought I could overcome my challenge. Well my blood brother John gave me a reality check. At a family reunion cookout through my big bro Hameen - my running ability would be tested. My ego said I could outrun John because I figured his legs never been put to the test like mines. He grew up with parents that spoiled him in the country area where you smell cow manure before your neighbor’s cooking. Well, he beat me in a down the street race. I underestimated him and blamed his extra 15 pounds and a couple inches taller height as an advantage.

All my motivation died for good when my adopted mom died on Christmas day when I was 12. I gave up on the young marines and Karate. Years later, I would give up on running track for my high school team juxtaposition with basketball. My straight A’s turned into I didn’t give a ‘F’ about five school classes. My sister Chanel in my adopted family began running with the top grades in the house. I just started: running into getting high off weed, chasing enemies (and running from a group that I was beefing with, running from cops, then running away from home, which led me to running with bad friends that influenced me to run into crime, like robbing and selling drugs). One day, my friend called me and said the U.S. marshals came to his house looking for me - that’s when I officially was on the run! I eventually got caught for the crimes I did and ended up with 9 to 20 years at the age 16.

Early in my bid, I ran into problems. About ten fights total in a seven year span. Those fights could have been avoided, but I lacked wisdom and maturity. I was running with a street mentality instead of spiritual guidance. I haven’t been in a fight since I was 25 years old.

Two years later, I’m up for parole. Now I realize how fast I ran out of time with nothing accomplished. No trade, no religious book written telling how I changed my life and found God, and no money saved up for an apartment. I got a one year hit (prolonged stay in prison) and still haven’t completed my goals. The flu and COVID-19 almost killed me January 2929 with the preexisting conditions I got which are undiagnosed so far, due to poor jail medical doctors. That life threatening virus reminds me how my immune system is getting weak (signs of aging). I canned the truck yesterday and came back to my cell with pain in my knees - signs of aging. My hairline is running backwards - signs of aging. All these signs of aging means I’m running out of time of being on this Earth. My ten years in prison felt like only four and a half years of memory. The other five and a half feel like a blur, vague, and incomplete or nonexistent.

After I complete my religious book and money savings for an apartment in prison, going home and having kids, teaching them about Islam and asking them to pray for me when I’m dead is my third must-do goal. Doing good deeds to outweigh my bad deeds is my final goal. That can be accomplished in two years, but it’s uncertain because I could die from so many things like a car accident or some enemy of mine seeks revenge on me. If I do achieve my third and fourth goal, then steps to the grave is what my life will feel like. My life will feel like an old man retiring, cruising to his last destination in life (heaven). My four goals should only take five years max to complete. Five years compared to the life expectancy of 75 years old for an American male, that’s about 43 years after age 32 to expect to die of the unknown. My time expires after my goals expire because I’ll be running out of time, chasing God’s mercy to get into Paradise.