# "Running" by Vinicio J. Garcia

Last Updated: March 15, 2021 9:21 PM
Month: 11 - November
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/18MYsJWhCKN_gZ24WOeVfGFh5zsu6Dg7QTdixnNz1QrE/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**Running by Vinicio J. Garcia**

Recent observations using advanced GPS tracking estimated the speed of the cheetah in the wild to be a little over 58 mph - more believable than older estimates of an excess of 70 mph. If you could run a mile in 4 minutes, whoosh very few humanimals (homo sapien as I will refer to here afterward) in the world can do this, would be 15 mph. A robotic dog under controlled conditions ran 27 mph - a power supply is the obstacle to be overcome to make it viable. Natives in Peru routinely run 50 miles both male and female barefoot runners.

I always liked to run. I walked to school all my life. It was part of my existence. It was annoying when it rained since some streets didn’t have paved sidewalks - very muddy. The elementary school was 3.2 miles away and the high school was 3.6.

I entered competitive running as a freshman. I quickly realized that I represented an essential element of competitive running. After all somebody had to finish last, I was told I was so slow it looked like I was running backwards. My first race as a freshman, alas in my hometown, I was so far back the announcer said “oh wait there is another left - let’s give him a hand for finishing.” There were 3 girls in the front row and they were all laughing - not a pleasant experience. I once finished fifth and I would have finished fourth, but as I was passing the fifth place runner with about 40 yards to go, he kicked him in the back of the upper thigh. Nothing was done about it. Very strange.

I never stopped running even as an alcoholic. In fact, it helped me drink more alcohol.

The attacks. One day while I was jogging in Irving, TX, a small mutt came from across the street charging me. He had dug a small opening underneath a well made wooden fence. He was barking as he charged. I had several experiences with dogs and know the proper procedure for defending against dog attacks. I knew against this small mutt I didn’t need any technique. I simply stopped, yelled at him and chased him back into his yard through the opening. So I went back to running (really jogging). After a few seconds, I heard something. It was the dog, but he wasn’t barking - I turn just in time to see him turn his head, open his mouth and bite me on the calf. It was a quick bite, and his mouth was too small, and he didn’t have time to clamp down on me. I’m sure he also knew that I would seriously hurt him. It was a small bite, but drew blood. So I chased him back to his yard and knocked on the door. The man was very apologetic and I told him I wouldn’t make an issue of it, but I wanted to verify that the dog had his shots. Then his wife came, and she quickly antagonized me and for a moment I considered making it an issue, but the man told her to shut up and apologize so I did not pursue it. Animal control contacted me later and said the dog was properly vaccinated.

I moved to the far west side of Arlintgton, TX, where the road was one lane each direction, even though it was a major street. So for a few blocks it was almost a countrified setting. I enjoyed running at that location. It was Sunday morning and very little traffic. I had on occasions noticed a rottweiler on this man’s porch. I only saw the dog on a few occasions. It seemed to be very calm and well behaved whenever people would walk by. There was a church nearby, so at times groups of people would walk by where the dog lived. It never seemed to pay any attention. As I was jogging ( I hadn’t seen the dog) I heard something breathing. Just as I looked back I saw it lunging at my calf. I kicked my legs up and it barely missed it. I didn’t have time to turn around since I had to keep kicking my leg up and forward as he alternated legs to bite. I was running in a circle and my glasses flew off. I was now in the middle of the street. I don’t remember how many circles I made, but suddenly I heard a young guy in a yellow Volkswagen who had stopped his car in the middle of the street, and another person had stopped behind him and they were both yelling at the dog. It finally looked up at them. As soon as he looked up I swung my fist across his jaw. I hit him perfectly with full force. He took off yelping. Never saw him again. I thanked the people.

Running begins in the brain. It is estimated that the brain uses 20% of the body's energy mass. Once you have lived long enough you can run back and forth through the pages of your history. I ran so slow I could not catch up with my past. As a very young boy, I searched for the truth. But the cacophony of lies muddled my senses. At age 29, like Buddha, I turned my back on society. Unlike Buddha, I became a functioning alcoholic. It took me 27 years to realize I had met the truth. The truth lies in the eyes of a child. This is the 21st century. There is nowhere left to go. It is a global existence. The barriers which separate us must begin to be taken down. There is no lie which cannot be exposed. It is not an easy task and those in power have no desire to change. It may take many generations  to undo the Gordian Knot of modern societies, but it must be done in order for us to survive. We must teach our children about compassion and love. The quest for truth requires eternal vigilance. This essay is too short for me to detail concrete specifics which I would propose could help us move forward.