# "Running…" by James Bauhaus

Last Updated: March 15, 2021 7:24 PM
Month: 11 - November
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/15yf89zB2DbaChfZGvTa77y5UkfMBJOwLcos-psq2EuY/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**Running… by James Bauhaus**

… For office. This is the first step towards true freedom: getting rich and powerful enough to get above the law. You join the game that makes the rules. This is why the game room is packed with lawyers. This is why talk-school is so expensive - er, I mean this is why law school is so expensive. You don’t have to know much of anything to be the best lawyer in the world. In fact, law school is the fallback choice of failed academics. If you can’t make it in math or science, your talk and cliche memory skills can take you to the top in lawyering and politicking. Lawyer school is expensive because it leads to politics and onto the biggest, best gravy train in the world: gov’t “service,” where the richest people chase you around, shouting, “Do me a favor! Take this money!” So obviously, the lawyer schools proliferate, taking all the rich men’s money to teach their kids how to push their views past logic, beyond science and far into the realm of fantasy where a toothy grin and bold visions conquer all! Since there is no end to lazy, greedy people wanting an easy way to get rich quick, the lawyer schools pump them out like bobby pins. According to elementary economic theory and evolutionary theory, there comes a point where society can’t handle so many lawyers. The demand for lawyers will have to shrink, and some lawyers may have to (gasp!) lower their prices. We would think this, but Malthus and Darwin never met Robespierre. THe richer the society, the more leeches - excuse me - lawyers it can support. There is no end to people richer than you scheming for advantage over you that will make them even richer. And criminal lawyers have a head start…

How? Primarily, they become prosecutors; political District Attorneys. (They soiled the term “lawyer” long ago and had to change their title to “attorney” which does not yet bring with it words like “sleaze” and “parasite.”) DA’s enjoy the tremendous advantage of having many thousands of affluent voters dragged into the judge’s courthouse to meet him for juror duty. He gets to blame this inconvenience on the judge. He gets to glad-hand all of these too trusting people. He gets to sing a sweet melody to them about civic duty, patriotism and old Glory. They are so enchanted with his halls of’ justice and his well-oiled and canned indoctrination process that they don’t even consciously notice the extra, unnecessary, yet vital-to-his-political-career, information about himself. (He got honors in the military, probably killed a bunch of “enemies” in a “war” that made him a hero. He’s so devout towards a generic God that he and his wholesome family practically live in the temple of could-be-any religion, when he isn’t giving it money or feeding the homeless and/or starving.) He is such a charmer! He makes their arduous journey through his tunnel of justice as enjoyable as possible. It can be pretty thrilling too, since the courtroom theater that he, his judge, and their Public Defender (PD) have planned is just like the thousands of cop/lawyer/judge glorification epics pumped out by Hollywood every year! First, there is a puzzle, then there is some Sherlocking by police with witnesses who are always absolutely certain it was him! Yes! That guy! The one who they put at the table right in front of this witness chair! Often, there is a thrilling chase, or at least a door kicked in and a dangerous criminal dragged away past the TV cameras that just happen to be in the perfect position for displaying and dramatizing the scene for viewing millions. They all saw it, but they all swear that nothing they saw will affect their guilty votes, which is, coincidentally, a 98% certainty for most trials. Some jurors like the justice-ride so much that they crave it again and again, like trap-happy raccoons.  The bait (throwing guilty lightning bolts) is worth way more than the inconvenience of showing up. They become the DA’s groupies and get chosen for the band over and over for their juror-prowess. But even the not-groupies will remember the DA’s name and that fine day that they spent with him at his justice-camp. Whether they’re gaming the system, trying to get on the most juicy book-worthy murder-trial juries, or just seeing his name on the list of nobodies seeking higher political office, they all will vote for this DA that they “know.”

So! This is how the least knowledgeable people infest the government and rule their betters on the basis of who has the most millions to buy, sell or nullify which law. How amusing it is that the “checks and balances” that these loud-talkers love to brag about have more to do with filling their secret Swiss bank accounts than their pretense of having an ounce of honesty and integrity among the Alps of graft that they live in. HOw hard they must be laughing as they are running to their banks and stockbrokers!