# "Running" by Brian Stevens

Last Updated: March 15, 2021 9:20 PM
Month: 11 - November
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/173XwjLhtT5aJZ8tdwuHcaTI_jkDopDEzAppGjqsa3N0/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**Running by Brian Stevens**

Running. All I’m thinking is, “Don’t get captured. Stop at a Taco Bell for some 99¢ burritos and Baja Blast.” Browsing through the Austin Chronicle I picked up for free at an adult megaplex, I noticed a concert going on today. It was Sunday, and the last day of the 2nd weekend of Austin City Limits Music Festival 2017. Jay-Z had played Friday, Red Hot Chili Peppers, and Ice Cube on Saturday, and today it was The Killers, Gorillax, Run the Jewels, Portugal the Man, and many more! Broke and on the run with death or jail on the horizon, this could be my last chance for some fun. I had to go. Walking. All the way to downtown Austin to find Zilker Park. I figured I’d just watch the show from up on a hill for free, right? Wrong. The entire park had been fenced in like a fortress, complete with security posted up along the wall like prison guards. No one was likely to have a spare ticket, as they were well over $100 and came with high-tech, tamper-proof bracelets. I could hear the music, but not see it, which was a sick form of torture for a concert fanatic like me. I would have to sneak in and that would require some more liquid courage. I finished my 6 pack of tall-boys while listening to rapper Danny Brown, then, headed back down the busy street to the bodega to get a Mickey’s 40oz. Found an unopened Monster Energy outside, so I pocketed it to save for later. I circled the perimeter of the fence with my 40, looking for a chink in the armor. Drinking. Thinking. Around back was an entrance and parking area for artists and crew that was surprisingly unguarded. I grabbed a couple cans of water out of a cooler (there was no beer) and kept walking like I belonged there. The back gate into the concert was open, so I casually strolled in and across the dirt golf cart track that circled the backstage area around the park. I could see the crowd now and had one more fence to pass to get in. As I crossed the barricade into the crowd I thought, “That was easy,” then a voice said, “Hey, where’s your credentials?”

I paused for a sec, then immediately a voice in my head said, “Don’t get captured!” Running. I took off and accidentally knocked a drink out of some girl's hand. Sorry! The security guard chased me, but I think he dropped his walkie-talkie and had to stop. Either way, I was gone, weaving through the mass of people across the grass and finding a place to sit by one of the side stages. I chilled there for a few to make sure the coast was clear, then head back out into the sea of people. I’d been to some big shows before, like “Ozzfest” and Warped Tour, but this was by far the biggest. There were more hot college girls there than you’d see on the beach during Spring Break. I made it to the stage where Atlanta's Killer Mike and Brooklyn’s EL-P AKA rap duo Run the Jewels would be playing. They came out on fire and straight killed it! I made my way to the front and had to start a mosh-pit when they played my anthem “Don’t Get Captured!” A girl yelled out, “you can’t start a mosh-pit at a rap concert!”

Watch me. A bunch of frat boys joined in and it went to another level when they blasted guest vocals by Rage Against the Machine’s Zack de la Rocha out the speakers yelling “run them, run them jewels fast!” Moshing, I pulled the now boiling hot Monster Energy out of my pocket, sprayed half on the crowd and slammed the rest. After their set ended and the sun went down, I walked around to check out some other bands, but made it back to that stage to catch Gorillaz. They’re fronted by Damon Albarn of Blur, but feature a slew of guest artists who blend all genres of music. Watching them made me feel like I had crossed an ocean and was now at a huge European festival. This was the final show of their U.S. tour and they closed their set with the big hits: “Feel Good Inc” and “Clint Eastwood.” I walked across the park to catch the end of The Killers set on the Main Stage. With the Austin Skyline sparking in the background they ended the night with “Mr. Brightside,” which was a good way to describe me at that moment. But I know all too well, when I left those festival grounds it would be back to reality. Running.