# "Simple Pleasures" by Mike Mincey

Last Updated: April 13, 2021 12:13 PM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): http://prisonerexpressarchive.org/?mode=essay&file=SimplePleasures_Hoss.xml
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2004

**"Simple Pleasures" by Mike Mincey**

Let me start this with an excerpt from Arthur Schopenhauer's (1788-1860, German philosopher), "The Wisdom of Life":
"I observe that the fundamental differences in human lot may be reduced to three distinct classes:(1) What a man is: that is to say, personality, in the wildest sense of the word; under which are included health, strength, beauty, temperament, moral character, intelligence and education.(2) What a man has: that is, property and possessions of every kind(3) How a man stands in the estimation of others... The differences which come under the first head are those which Nature herself has set between man and man; and from this fact alone we may at once infer that they influence the happiness of mankind in a much more vital and radical way than those contained under the two following heads, which are merely the effect of human arrangements. Compared with GENUINE PERSONAL ADVANTGAES, such as a great mind or a great heart, all the privileges of rank or birth, even of royal birth, are but as kinds on the stage to kings in real life. The same things was said long ago by Metrodorus, the earliest disciple of Epicurus, who wrote as the title of one of his chapters, THE HAPPINESS WE RECEIVE FROM OURSELVES IS GREATER THAN THAT WHICH WE OBTAIN FROM OUR SURROUNDINGS. And it is an obvious fact, which cannot be called in question, that the principle element in a man's well-being, -indeed, in the whole tenor of his existence, --is what the is made of, his inner constitution."
Agreeing with the above premise, even though Mr. Schopenhauer was himself a pessimist, I clearly see that some of my most pleasurable moments--considering that I'm in prison--are achieved while all alone and just contemplating Nature as she reveals herself to me in ways that I've never took the time to notice before. For I was (and still am) an adventurous rascal and took for granted the world (stage) that is every bit as vital to me as the air I breathe. For now that I'm forced to sit still for years (I've been in the same 5'x9' cell for two years now) I do not take Nature for granted any more. I respect her in all her subtleness, from the meager sunlight that enters my cell to the water that is eventually supplied to me. In all these simple pleasures most still take them for granted although let one be absent for a short time and man do they go cryin'.
Now I've come to realize just who "I" really am and what my life means to me. I've been blessed with a good healthy body, though my mind was somewhat damaged at a young age from drugs and alcohol, it has finally (T think) started to function fairly decent, I'm also discovering that I have some talent. I was always conscious of my excellent coordination, but I never had the patience to sit still and draw. It was beyond my emotional level until I came to prison. This to me is a way to appreciate a rather bad experience in the light most favorable to my future, eh? I'm stuck here for life, so I might as well make the best of it. I show a tendency here to dwell on my abilities to be productive, at least from a prisoner's perspective. I've come to the conclusion that "I" must do this for myself, it's my way of self-determination. Though, I fully recognize and thoroughly appreciate opportunities such as what Gary, and other such programs, offers to us "lifers" in prison.
But as Schopenhauer explained, these "are just merely the effect of human arrangements." Nevertheless, they are simple pleasures, at least for me. And, to show my appreciation, I will participate in the projects offered. No matter how small it is, someone may just derive a simple pleasure from reading it, at least that's my hope.
However, to get a little philosophical here, I want to comment on the perception of happiness. We "feel" happy about something that we have come to understand, otherwise if there's no understanding of that which could have us feeling happy then we would in no sense be happy. Without, however, the knowledge or understanding of that which could make us happy there would be absolutely no feeling of happiness. All this to say that, by coming to a true understanding of our self (the ancient Greeks had an inscription over the temple of Delphi, "Know yourself") do we obtain the ability to connect with our inner-self and can then guide ourselves to "simple pleasures" that would otherwise be lost in the hurly-burly of the prison environment.
For me, I now can find the simplest pleasure from just about anything. But I must be careful not to overdo it (the Greeks also had another inscription over the temple of Delphi, "Nothing in excess"), because me "keepers" might begin to think I'm a little too funny, know what I mean? Moderation (sophrosyne) was the basic and most characteristic Greek virtue. I'm not ready for the funny farm, nor am I, unlike Socrates, ready for my "elixir" of thorazine, just yet. Society already labels me and obvious defective.
Schopenhauer mentioned that Metrodorus was the earliest disciple of Epicurus. Epicurus of Samos (342-270B.C.), in which the school of Epicureanism was founded, and his followers adopted pessimism, they claimed that the best life has to offer is the avoidance of pain. They also proposed a hedonistic attitude, according to which happiness consists of pleasure; true pleasure is the achievement, through great moderation, of serenity of mind and heart. I believe this introduces some ancient thoughts (or philosophy) on the matter of simple pleasures.
The simple pleasures that I'm experiencing in my quest for truth and knowledge, is that I'm free to devote my full energies searching for truth in all its hideaways. By being in prison, I'm allowed the convenience of leisure and can therefore forego the pursuit of money, power, women, family and other personally oriented values. Not that, on a small scale, these aren't obtainable or even somewhat pursued but they are for the most part put aside. I'm writing from the perspective of an ad-seg. 'or (segregation). So situationally, I'm naturally able to focus more on obtaining a complete awareness of reality that I never before took the time to do, and with that awareness a newfound courage within myself of my abilities to be a worthwhile person -- not the "defective" that I once even viewed myself as.
The opportunity to present this essay is another instance of which I can testify to, that has me "simple pleased". A precept from a contemporary fellow prisoner, David Lane, goes thusly: "One measure of a man is his cheerfulness in adversity." I truly believe that if a person really wishes to be happy --no matter what--then they will find a way to make is so. At least this philosophy works for me. And who knows, it may work for you too. Remember no one can take your spirit unless first you give it up. Stay strong and grow. -The End- Mike "Hoss" Mincey