# "Sister Arista" by Steven McCain

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/11JYzpoXY_jfvl7VWFQ2QMxWwJNCQtGMYMqaEkfWS5M8/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**Sister Arista by Steven McCain**

The Paupers are but one of several large families in Margarita Tello County; here also are the Boors, Grangers, and Peasants, to name only a few. These families have many stories to tell; stories about their homes, habits, and histories. Most of their stories are fascinating; all with a lesson or a moral to be taught, a warning to be considered, or a simple but thought provoking message.

One particularly interesting story told among all of the families here concerns sisters; specifically, those named Arista. Mr. Borasca, a local agrarian, says, “This is a phenomenon beyond intuition, but it is tried and true. “Taking a breath and making the sign of the cross, he continues, “Arista is a beautiful name, but one that every family here considers with much superstition, believing the name a curse.” Silence lingers in the air momentarily as he gathers his thoughts, and then he goes on, “No parent would willfully give the name to their daughter, most especially if they had, or wanted to have more children. Sometimes, however, they seem compelled to do so, as if by some external force; and they do so with much dread in their hearts. Throughout our history all of our sisters who have had this name have become restive; and have broken away from their families and friends, leaving their previous lives behind, never to be revisited again. This has happened, without fail, to every family who had a daughter, among other siblings, named Arista, and, in every case, these sisters married into the Krat family. Oddly, this curse had never affected single child families. It also has never affected male children here, but somewhere it must, because there are many members of the Krat family, male and female alike, who are known as Arista Krat.”

After a time, Mrs. Borasca picked up the story, saying, “Nobody can say for sure, of course; our history as a nation goes back 250 years, and nearly 300 more before that as imperial colonies, but legend has it that the resulting damage to our families has always been irreparable. Worst of all, this union of our sisters Arista to the Krats has historically caused problems that only multiply for us here at home.”

It turns out that the Krat family is both important and influential, and over the years Margarita Tello has lost a great many daughters to them. The Aristas of Margarita Tello, united with the Krat family, are the Arista Krats that constitute the bulk of our government. They are the legislators, the congresspersons - Could this possibly be the opposite of progress-persons? - senators, policy-makers, and all manner of politicians. They create policy that affects every segment of society: commercial and civil; public and private. They create the laws that define acceptable bounds of behavior to which all citizens - at least all common citizens - must abide. They proclaim their wish to “take a bite out of crime” but oftentimes, through ill-conceived legislation, enable and encourage it instead; and, unable to stave it off, they settle instead on exacting punishment and/or vengeance on those who transgress their laws.

This is where Arista’s estrangement creates the most noticeable problems. Arista, and the Krats, although they are able to cross the chasm created by her restive behavior, to get back to her family, choose not to do so, and her natural family is unable to surmount it. The Krats are isolated from every other family. They are sheltered, sheldid, and protected from the harsh realities of the world that they presume to govern. This is a very serious problem for all of society, because all of these Arista Krats are making decisions, establishing policy, and enacting laws that affect a world that they no longer understand. This family of Arista Krats is blind to this problem, but nearly every other family in the nation would testify to it. The saddest, and most dangerous thing about this situation is that the vast majority of these Arista Krats don't even understand that they don’t understand. Consider the following analogy: If a Boor, Granger, or Peasant conceived of, designed, and built an interstellar spacecraft - without enlisting the guidance of those who know about such things - would you be willing to undertake its maiden voyage? This sounds like a risky proposition; yet, this is exactly what these Arista Krats have done, only they are not the ones boarding their ill-conceived craft. They are, in fact, forcing us to board it. Do you see the sign? Road Out Ahead! Apparently they do not. Perhaps this explains why:

- Spending on prisons consistently outpaces spending on education;
- We send billions of dollars offshore to help the poor in a variety of third world countries, but neglect the poor in our own back yard;
- We will spend tens of millions of dollars on a bridge to cross a wildlife preserve, but will not spend a dime building the infrastructure to support alternative prisons;
- Prison is considered as the first - or only - option rather than the last resort, when judging transgressions of the law;
- Vengeful draconian punishments are sought rather than measures designed to be corrective;
- The disease (root cause/circumstance eliciting criminal behavior) is never addressed, but only the symptom (criminal behavior).

Isn’t it about time our sisters, the Arista Krasts of society, wised up? Shouldn’t we be telling them - Shouldn’t they already know - that incarcerating citizens by the hundreds of thousands, indeed, by the millions serves no useful purpose and is, in fact, a disservice to society on multiple fronts. Is it possible that all of our sisters were absent from school on the day they would have been taught about the psychology of human behavior and negative versus positive reinforcement? Perhaps we should take up the mantle of leadership here and ensure that our sisters, the Arista Krats, understand that negative reinforcement has only limited uses, beyond which it no longer functions as a deterrent to bad behavior, but its enabler. Negative reinforcement is useful only to get one’s attention. Once a person’s attention has been secured, positive reinforcement should be employed as the tool used to achieve positive behavior modification. This is the essential definition of rehabilitation.

Also, we should all understand that extremely harsh punishments (excessive prison terms), almost without fail, deny the transgressor any realistic opportunity of rehabilitation, and serve only to institutionalize the victims of such punishments? It is our sisterly duty, our responsibility, and our obligation, as the kith and kin of all the Arista Krats of society to let them know it’s time we lost our oppressivessive and vindictive nature and found our concerned, caring, and compassionate nature. Our world has evolved and changed since the days of Drace - 2600 years - it’s time our justice system caught up with the rest of it.