# "Sisters" by Micheal Oakleaf

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MiCqYuT_4mjoVtoYl1iGjiohkx-1YUj0WJjIDpCYSIk/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**Sisters by Micheal Oakleaf**

I have three younger sisters between the ages of fifteen and forty-five. The last time I saw any of them was more than five years ago, the day I was arrested. Because of my choices and behaviors, they - like my brothers - have nothing to do with me. I do not blame them. I was not a nice person for the first forty years of my existence. Unlike the people in my public life who knew and saw the mask that portrayed a kind, caring and secure person- my persona- my family experienced the selfish, jealous and abusive individual that I really was. They could not live up to - nobody including myself could - so they lived with and endured my unrealistic expectations, my delusional thinking, and my unhealthy beliefs about myself, life and relationships; I pushed them away. Maybe as a blessing or maybe as a curse, coming to prison forced me to take a hard look at myself, and to learn the meanings and importance of relationships, friendship, support, love, and family, to appreciate all my sisters and brothers. Now, I live with not just the guilt, shame and regret for the human beings I offended against, the people I deceived and let down, but also the family I hurt, embarrassed and destroyed.

The last I heard, my oldest sister was doing very well with a great job, success, a home and a family. I am still jealous of her, but not in an angry, destructive way. I realize that she has worked hard and has made good choices. I am very proud of her and all my siblings, and wish them nothing less than the very best. My middle sister, who is twenty-six, is on her own and making a go at life. My father has not seen or heard from her in more than a year, but previously she was struggling to make her way in the world. Of all of us, her life has been the most challenging. Regrettably, I lacked the patience, empathy, and know-how to help her. I would give anything to be able to undo my ill-treatment of her and the others I harmed and abused. Alas, I cannot. I yearn for the opportunity to be there - like a good brother should - to support and help her through her difficult times; although, I am not sure I have the knowledge and skills, yet. My youngest sister was ten-years-old when I was arrested, which was for days before her eleventh birthday. Due to the nature of my crimes and concern for their safety, she and my youngest brothers were removed from my parent’s home and placed in foster care. When I was offending, I never considered or imagined that my actions and my consequences would affect so many so negatively, would be so destructive. My family members are as much victims of my decisions and actions as the individuals I offended against. My arrest and confession to my unconscionable and inexcusable crimes took a serious toll on my Mom and Dad’s mental, emotional and physical health from which they never recovered. They have not spoken to or heard about my younger sister and her well-being in almost four years. In May, my mother died. I know in my heart that her passing was the result of my violations and the loss of my siblings, especially my sister who is the baby in the family.

Since my incarceration, I have come to realize that when a person makes terrible choices, his life falls apart, and everyone else walks away, it is his family who will love and stick by him anyway, unless he violates those relationships, too. I pushed away and destroyed my family by giving into my dysfunctional beliefs and thoughts, by not addressing my issues and fears, and by doing the things I did. I now reap from the garden I sowed.