# "Smoking Boys" by John Naylor

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 12 - December
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IfoV-txLrbaF4obHitfI1AlqYggqhPho4fm6_NbfhjM/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2015

**"Smoking Boys"** **by John Naylor**

The pistol blasted away, taking down my Dad’s empty Pepsi cans one by one. I ran out of CO2 cartridges before I’d ever dream of running out of BBs. Also, the cans would be recycled to put money back in my pocket and to help the earth. After all, the energy saved from recycling an aluminum can could power a T.V. for three hours. But what about a used steel CO2 cartridge? What type of rebellion couldn’t I fashion it into with enough determination? Off to the shop. Gogo Gadget skill saw and abrasive cutting wheel. A teenager and some power tools can make wonders of delinquency. Now to drill a hole in the bottom. If the diameter of some aluminum tubing is just right, you could make a bowl, I thought. Water won’t affect aluminum too much, even in the long term. No top and dies on this project, just heat resistant epoxy putty. Oh, lowly, 20 oz pop bottle, if the manufacturers only knew your fate. It would all be a dry water pipe with glue nicely hardened by tomorrow. For tomorrow would bring new things.

Tomorrow is truly only a day away. The boys come to the ranch. It’s a trip Cherry won’t soon forget. We wait until the quiet of morning sets in.

All the squares are at work. Here I have the makings for some initiation. This water pipe is filled with pure country water. I’ll gage where he’s at using leaves. When the veins of a morning glory leaf blow my mind, I’ll know he’s where he needs to be I think. Here’s this ungodly bowl the size of my little finger. Back and forth we go. The “voice of reason” giving encouragement along the way: “That’s it, hold it in,” he says. The gags and coughs heard and seen could make a Grandma piss herself with laughter. But Cherry was doing well. In the heat of the moment, I look to the morning glory leaf which now appears superb. “The voice of reason” says it’s time. He informs Cherry that he must drink the bong water. I’m in shock. But I’m in a surreal scene. Is it all real? He totally said it, and I can’t hold back my laughter and smile despite such valiant efforts. “Yeah, Cherry I’ve done it too” I added. The look on his face couldn’t have been more priceless. But the peer pressure continued as God seemingly intended. Bottoms up! He went for it. He retched and gagged on it.

He spit, gagged, coughed and dry heaved. But there just wasn’t any hope of getting that taste out of his mouth. We decided to go for a walk down the country road. Or perhaps it should’ve been called a country stagger. We walked to the next destination. A cow pasture. I had my arm around Cherry to keep our mutual balance. It seemed wise to keep him from being hit by some drunken motorist or meth cook. My neighbor looked at us quite puzzled, and I wasn’t sure if he thought we were trashed. I kind of hoped he thought so though because it’d look gay if two teen boys walked like that otherwise. Perhaps less so with a upper classman following in tow. What a strange sight. Through my laughter, I felt empathy for my neighbor. Somehow we made it to the pasture without turning back. We climbed the fence and heaved some gorgeous trees and a brook. I was starting to feel better. But Cherry couldn’t hardly stand on his own. Then we heard cows. “The voice of reason” told him never to run because they’ll sense your fear. Thinking we would feed them, they ran to us like mad! Cherry broke into a run, trying to clear a barbed wire fence, but he got stuck. His jeans were caught on rusty barbed wire.

His swearing didn’t save his flesh. When I got ahold of myself so I wouldn’t piss my pants laughing, I went over to help him. As did “the voice of reason.” He explained how he told him not to run because they’d smell his fear. We helped him down. There were no hard feelings. Just hours of more fun. I guess the moral of the story is to try new things, don’t worry how it looks to your neighbors. In the new exploration, if something seems scary, face your fears: they probably aren’t out to get you. They probably just want something to eat. Help your friends if they get hung up, even if it looks strange to stagger with a man in bloody ripped jeans. No matter how it looks, it’s loyal, and there’ll be hours of fun later on.