# "Something Fishy" by Bobby Bunderson

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1igMyh6tJhuJYRicNtqjRVYvZsGYSDHni5pOqHZZzuLs/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

Something Fishy

By Bobby Bunderson

I was stricken in the summer of 1972 by a horrific malady. My body was under siege. I was suffering from nature’s slow, yet inevitable anatomical transformation. I was going through puberty! However, my more pressing issue was more psychological than physiological. Since the tender age of 5 when I first dipped my toe into the pool of academia (kindergarten), until now (the sixth grade), my schooling had consisted of me sitting in a single classroom with the same 25 other fellow students and the same (female) educator for the entire school year. In a few months, I was making the bold leap into junior highschool. Junior highschool! The prospect made my palms sweat, my stomach lurch and my sleep fitful. Junior highschool was widely known in my circle as a very foreboding entity which consisted of several gross injustices that had to be endured. Six different classrooms in a single day. Each filled with 25 different students (most of whom you wouldn’t know because they were all shuttled to school on buses from all over town). Horrific tales of school dances were equally unsettling. And yet, the most terrifyingly, dreadful indignity one was faced with was physical education or P.E. It was there in the boys (or girls) locker room where true humiliation was felt. Stripping down to one’s birthday suit and showering with a bunch of other equally naked boys! Jeez, where was the humanity?

The prospect of the upcoming school year was blessedly (albeit temporarily), overshadowed by the anticipation of the new fishing season. In a few hours time, my entire family would begin stirring from their beds. The rich smell of freshly brewed coffee would permeate the entire house and the “tinkling” sound of cold cereal being poured into glass bowls would dominate the airwaves. After the quick grazing all four of us older boys (ages 9-11), would pile into the back of our camper while our baby brother Stephen (age 2) would be placed into his car seat in the cab of the truck. Our father had used the butane stove to heat the camper and we all sat toasty with our own thoughts.

I loved our camper. It slept 6 people comfortably. Being the eldest, I was bestowed the privilege of sleeping in the cab of the truck. In all actuality, it was cold and uncomfortable but I never let on lest my sibling tease me about my so-called “honor”. What I truly loved about our camper was the assorted aromas from our camping trips of summer’s past. The smell of salt from Pismo Beach, pinetrees from the Sierra Mountains, mesquite and sage from the hot desert floor of the Mojave. Each scent delicately blended, yet discernable by their own nature. Other underlying fragrances were also present: the smell of mugs of steaming SwissMiss cocoa with marshmallows, sleeping bags, salmon eggs and garlic flavored cheese bait. These were comfortable smells which elicited fond memories and evoked the tales of past journeys.

We pulled out of the driveway at 4:00. The lake was a mere 2 mil drive and the “Fine & Feather Club” did not open their gates until 6:00am, but we knew from past experiences that fellow anglers who lived over the hills in the San Fernando Valley had arrived by dawn of the previous day in order to get a prime camping spot. As expected, there were nearly 40 campers, cars, and trucks (many hauling boats behind them) in line ahead of us. By 5:00am, a club employee went from vehicle to vehicle checking to make sure that everyone had a valid fishing license and that their club fees were up-to-date. At 6:00am sharp, the gates swung open and the caravan of awaiting vehicles all started their engines like the drivers at Daytona did every February.

Our father decided upon the long, L-shaped wooden pier near a boat ramp. All of us boys eagerly grabbed our poles and tackle boxes and scampered down to the end of the pier. I began my morning spincasting; a technique of throwing your line out with a lure of some sort and slowly reeling it back in, hoping for a “strike”. My tackle box was loaded with all sorts of tackle: swivels, weights, bobbers, pliers, fillet knife, premade leaders, different size hooks, bug spray, salmon eggs, blood bait and zekes floating bait. I chose a Mepps “Black beauty” lure. With a snap of my wrist, I allowed 30 yards of line to sail through the dewey morning air carrying the Mepps lure along with it. The lure hit the lake with a light “plunk” sound and I allowed it to sink below the surface approximately 10 feet before I began slowly reeling it back in, I could almost envision the lures spinner as it spun through the clear water like the rudder of a submarine. What trout could possibly resist?

“Wham”! My ultralight Garcia pale bent into the shape of an upside down U. I caught a fish on my first cast. I was somewhat miffed. However when I reeled it in, I discovered that it wasn’t that big. I kept it reluctantly. The limit is 5 trout per fisherman. My intention was to get me 5 big, plump trout who had been spending all off-season getting fat and sassy for me. I hooked the “stocker” onto my stringer and cast again. The fish were biting alright, but I wanted a bigger fish. So I removed my lure and added a 2 ft leader, treble hook, and a gob of “zekes” garlic flavored cheese floating bait. I used a pretty big weight so that I could cast much further out, into deeper waters where I suspected the “lunkers” were lurking. My brother Dennis had already set his line and was now “skipping” rocks on the shore side of the pier. I placed my pole in its holder which was secured to the pier with a “vice-like” clamp and began checking on my fellow anglers who spread themselves all down the length of the pier. Most families already had stringers loaded with rainbow trout. By noon, the bites had slowed down. I went to go check my bait and when I got back to my position, I discovered that my brother Dennis’ pole was no longer sitting in the pole holder, it was gone. His tackle box was right where he had left it, but his fishing rod was gone baby gone! Maybe he had taken it and was spincasting I surmised. In any case, I went looking for him.

I found him on shore looking for more flat rocks to skip on the water. I asked about his pole and he said that he’d left it in its holder. He didn’t really seem to care one way or the other and so I went back to tend to my spot. When I got back, I discovered that I had a bite. My pole was bouncing up and down like crazy. Adrenaline coursed throughout my body. With shaky hands, I snatched up my pole and began battling with the monster at the end of my line. I let out some drag so that the fish would tire soon. Slowly my spindle once again began to fill with line, I had to be close! Suddenly, I saw my swivel and leader appear from the deep blue water. My heart sank when I noticed that there was no fish on my hooko. I did however manage to snap someone else’s line. I grabbed the line and began pulling it manually. From the depth, I saw another fishing pole. It was Dennis’ pole! I pulled it out of the water and began reeling his line. I quickly surmised that he had perhaps snagged his line on a log or something because as I reeled it in, it felt heavy but with no resistance as would be the case with a fighting trout. But it “was” a trout. A very large, very exhausted trout. I reeled it in, grabbed my net and scooped it up and onto the pier. It was a whopper. 18” long and almost 3’. That was a beast of a fish, a rare beauty here at the “Fin and Feather Club”.

This is a true story. A story that has become a part of our family lore. A real “fish” story that isn’t fishy at all. Believe it or not?....