# "Thankful" by John Reese Michael

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 12 - December
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gwMXHjcrq3VGoGmwdMQZqkQTc-IFDudntBTq0oRrv2E/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**“Thankful” By John Reese Michael**

What can I say about being thankful?

This is a hard one. The answer is subject to change at random. Some days I can’t even say I'm thankful to be alive. But on most days it's the simple things I’m thankful for. My life has always been one of extremes, I’m either doing extremely well or extremely poorly. So, I’m thankful for the days of peace and repose, days in which I am not played by the hunger pains, days when no one calls me a punk, weak, ugly, dumb, or threatens me with bodily harm. I’m thankful for the times that I can forget how much it all hurts. I’m thankful to sometimes forget how much my family’s indifference to me hurts. I am thankful for a good book to read. A simple letter in the mail. Letters are something that I am so thankful for. I’ve been locked up over two years now and have had no visits at all from my family. And talked to my mom only one time. IIt cost me three breakfast trays. So one the days I get a letter it really makes me thankful for days after. I will be thankful for my freedom as it will be upon my release in 2019. I will be the most thankful for my first camping trip after my release. I miss the woods, rivers, streams, deer, birds, ect. A few days in isolation in nature. It’s a healing balm on my broken soul. I guess that most things I feel thankful for are not of much importance to most people. I try to not let myself have high hopes. I’ve learned that small hopes when unfulfilled are easier to forget. This way of thinking is not just due to my incarceration. I try to be thankful for small things out in the world as well. In prison as in the “free” world it’s all the same, in that regard, I’m thankful for a full belly, feeling loved, valued, trusted, needed safe, freedom, and independence, for a single day in which I do not need to question motives of the people around me. It’s so nice. Even if I'm wrong for a short time, I think the people around me love and value me and don’t have hidden motives. For me simple things have never been easy. I’m thankful to be at a point in my life in which I am not willing to pretend I'm something I am not or pretend to believe in things I do not to be liked or accepted. No matter how much the resulting rejection hurts. I am very thankful for that small bit of inner strength, I am thankful for memories or hugs and kisses past such simple life affirming contact is a sorely missed thing for me at the best of times. So even more so in harsh places like this .I am very thankful for my daydreams. They sustain me more than anything else in life right now. To escape the emptiness and pain into a world inside my head. It's a big gift. Im thankful for the days in which i do not question my own sanity, for those days in which i do not question the reality of what i see and hear and think.That is something for which I am extremely thankful for the opportunity to have such thoughts remembered and known by others so at the least someone will know a little of the “”real” me so that I will not be completely forgotten when I am gone.