# "Thanks for the Enema" by Robert Allan Dzzekan Jr.

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 12 - December
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MylOqCA8oiq28UpDn2nhOFCjTtggFq-R9nx2Wy72O8k/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**“Thanks for the Enema” by Robert Allan Dzzekan Jr.**

It’s that time of the year again, when we’re collectively reminded to acknowledge all the things we often forget to be thankful for. Outside the barbed-wire fence, it’s a time celebrated with food and family. I think the thanks it lost in the vast spread of turkey,, yams, green bean casserole, cranberry sauce and pies of all makes and models. Within prison walls, this holiday of Thanksgiving takes on a different tone. The food isn’t nearly what we remember from those incredible spreads from days gone by. The mood is more somber, many of us unable to see any reason to be thankful at all. On this, my fourth Thanksgiving behind bars, I don’t count myself among the thankless. On the contrary, in this place of cold concrete and steel, of stone-faced and shriveled-heated neighbors, where our property and identity is limited, I consider all I have to be grateful for.

Perhaps it’s my exploration of some buddhist ideals over the last year, or perhaps it’s just the realization that even through all this loss, I’ve gained much. Many things lost are things better lost. The time and memories I’d rather be spending with my four children are not among those things. Still, I’ve found ways to be there for them, even from here, and for that I’m thankful. I’ve pruned my personality, and believe I’m a man my children and family can be proud of. For this too, I give my thanks. I’ve watered seeds within myself I didn’t even know were there. I’ve discovered a budding artist, a flowering writer, and the wild and untamed ivy of a prison scholar. What a lovely shade of green. For these things, growing as they will, I give my thanks. I’ve found true friendship in people who, even aware of my worst, are still amicable. GOD bless them, and my thanks for their presence in my life. Instead of feeling like this is a prolonged period of decay, I feel like this period of incarceration is more like a prolonged second birth, a long labor, sometimes painful, but even the pain sweet in the knowledgement that there is an end, and in that end will be a new creature, beautiful, warts and all. Even in the midst of these labor pains, I‘m thankful for each contraction. I know I’m wonderfully formed, and that my form is till being molded. I know that too if I allow myself to be molded in an attitude of thanks, even for the pain, even for the loss, even for the discomfort of my concrete and steel home, then I’ll be less bitter in the end. I know that thankfulness isn’t always easy, but that like everything else, it’s a habit. It’s who I want my children to see me become, so for this habit of thankfulness, I’m thankful. I had a choice. I could let this be a turning point in my life, either using this time to become great or greatly broken. I chose greatness. I’m grateful I hope my family will be thankful too. I hope one day they will say that despite all the pain and shame, it was worth it.