# "Thankful" by Calvin Westerfield

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 12 - December
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iwMd9V43gFdjAaAcLnkI3PnIgzG7ddfX_zqyg6K6_-M/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Thankful by Calvin Westerfield**

Ifa (pronounced EE-FIE) is a West African system of spirituality that includes divination, medicine, initiation, nature worship, ancestral reverence, a system of ethics, and a philosophy of life that includes cosmetology, metaphysics, ontology, and practical science. In Ifa, there is an angelic deity called Eau Elegba who is known as “The Divine Trickster”. He leads people on a spiritual journey by placing obstacles and adversities in their lives. Hearing that adversity can be used as a guide to spirituality may give one pause, but Napoleon Hill said it best when he wrote, “In every adversity lies the seed to an equal or greater benefit.” - Think And Grow Rich. So to say that I am thankful for my current circumstances actually makes a lot of sense despite my being twelve years in on a twenty year prison sentence. All the obstacles that I am faced with, and the adversities that I must overcome daily are all instrumental in molding my character and making me a man of substance, and for that I am thankful.

Just recently, I transferred out of solitary confinement at a Maximum Security prison for my involvement in a riot that occurred last year on September 10, 2016 at the Kinross Facility. Roughly 900 convicts were involved in this incident, and half of that number received a Class One Misconduct Report for Inciting A Riot and Striking. We were all whisked away that night on an emergency ride-out and ninety-eight guys, including myself, went to Marquette, a 110 year old prison, for a kangaroo hearing where all but three of us were found guilty and sentenced to a year in the “hole”. Thirty days later, we were herded to another Max Joint called Baraga in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan to actually be warehoused for that duration, and many of these guys felt this was the worst thing that could have happened to them which caused them to suffer the whole stay. Prison itself is an inhumane industrial complex that makes a mockery of the flowery terms it uses to describe its purposes such as, “reform” and “corrections”, but solitary is stricter oppression on top of inhumanity. Locked away in a single man cage, for twenty-three hours a day with only one hour of recreation in a small dog-cage (which you are literally walked to on a leash) can quickly tear down a person’s mental stability if they discover they don’t like being alone with themselves, and can’t find the gift that hides within solitude.

While in solitary I reconnected with an old friend named Chika I had met seven years prior at Michigan Reformatory. He had always been deep into spirituality and African culture, but now he was studying Ifa and the Yoruba religion. At Kinross I was in a poetry group with another brother named Adegun, who was also practicing Ifa, and density had it that we all landed at this facility and in the same unit to serve our time in the hole. We started to build on the Yoruba religion very deeply through written correspondence and on the one hour yards. Soon, I was engrossed with the beauty of these powerful teachings and ready to fully adhere to them. Eau had sent me on a spiritual journey disguised as sanctions and I was being guided to a spiritual path that would reveal to me who I really am and why I am here on this Earth

So what my oppressors intended as punishment was actually one of the greatest gifts of my life! For that I am truly thankful. Modupe is the Yoruba word for Thankful. So I say Modupe, for this “punishment” allowed me to get in tune with the Orisha’s who are angelic deities who guide and protect me. My cultural name, Mangaaka Ade was revealed to me by the spirits of my ancestors who are called Egun, and I am learning to see the interrelatedness of all existence through the profound teachings that have been passed down from generation to generation. I say Modupe for Babalawo Ebalogun whose Ase was passed to Chika Ganyana Aha, and Adegun Diliza Ajubone. For these Warrior Priests and teachers I am truly thankful, and I am also thankful for the Michigan Department of Corrections for placing me in solitary confinement for a year with these brothers. Everything happens for a reason!