# "Thankful" by Michael Jerome McKinney

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 12 - December
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BHKOQWpMqKhQ8-CDkq850uJqolJS5x8ygNqSvRDqkYk/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**“Thankful” by Michael Jerome McKinney**

As I sit and write this essay, my mind is racing and reflecting over all that I am thankful for. Even having life in prison at the moment, I have so much to be thankful for. I have been locked up in prison for almost 30 years, and I have outlived so many inside and outside the prison. That’s something to be thankful for when I was told at a very young age that I was not going to live to see my eighteenth birthday. But God had his way with that. Learning to be thankful is very important in all of life. My father, big Michael McKinney, got killed so many years ago, but the McKinney family, at least the ones that are left, has been by my side whenever they could be. I will never stop being for something like that. And father big Mike’s oldest sister’s name was Betty McKinney, and she was very close to me. She loved me, lil Michael, so much and she used to tell my family in Alabama, and lil cousin, Donald Morgan, that I was not going to do a life sentence in prison, that I was going to get out again. For years I was always hearing that Aunt Betty always spoke that way about my time. And where she was last staying at, I heard she had a real big picture of me, lil Michael, hanging up and she used to speak greatly of me all the time. She turned 83 years old September 3, 2017 and passed away September 22, 2017, three days after my birthday, which was September 19. God, let my Aunt Betty live to see my birthday September 19, 2017. The passing away of Aunt Betty brought a lot of my family together up in Alabama when they had her funeral; my brother, Sedrick, was there from Tampa, Florida and so on. My cousin, Donald Morgan, had a long talk about me and broke down in tears together. That’s something to be thankful for, knowing I am never forgotten, knowing I am loved by the family. My cousin Donald also brought me to the attention of my first cousin, Melody, who grew up in Tampa, Florida. I have not gotten a letter from her since I’ve been in prison, but after my Aunt Betty’s funeral, in the mail I got a small card from my cousin Melody who stays in Lithonia Ga now. In her card, she went to say, “Hello Michael, I must say it gives me much pleasure to write you this note. You are truly missed. Donald gave me your information,” she said we have so many childhood memories. I’m at a loss for words. “And since your name has surfaced back into my world, I have felt a little guilty that I have not been in touch with you or paid you a visit. But truly love you like I always have.” She said she would be in touch with me for now on out. Just the other day, I had another card from my cousin Melody. She went on to say, “I truly enjoyed reading your letter. I felt a little guilty that it took some years to reach out to you. Donald pulled a picture up of you on the computer and I got so teary. I think as family, we should also have constant contact.” And she said, “From this day forward, I will continue to keep in contact.” And that’s a blessing that I am very thankful for.