# "THE HISTORY OF DESTINY" by Johnny Dawson

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 08 - August
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/18t8n7GivKd4ttFkx2AYrGZC_Jf4I_Ai9OMWpGJ7q7EU/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**THE HISTORY OF DESTINY by Johnny Dawson**

Once upon a time, way back when I was young, I used to take Destiny out in the forest to learn about her ancestors. On her Grandmother's side that would be the Cheyenne and Blackfoot Indians. She loved to walk through the dry, crunchy leaves and look for shed antlers and hunt for arrowheads or anything that might have been left behind by tribes that had inhabited the area. She would take them home and make little things out of them. I taught her how to make necklaces and bracelets using the antlers and some beads, and how to use strips of leather to put them on. I also taught her how to tan the hide of a deer, as well as how to arrange the feathers on a war bonnet. She liked to dress up like an Indian princess and do a dance like the Indians. I made her a flute like the Native Americans use and she began to play it daily until she could play the music of the Indian tribes. When she played she seemed so at peace. Her small hands were just the right size for the flute holes. She was so pretty with her long blonde hair flowing in the breeze, and her big blue eyes shining in the sun.

As she played, some animals would try to sneak in closer to find out where the music was coming from. She loved to watch the animals play in the leaves as they chased each other. It was like they were playing a game of tag. When she laughed it sounded so sweet you couldn't help but smile. She was a true nature girl. She didn't like to see it rain because I wouldn't let her run off into the woods and get soaking wet. She loved animals and wondered where the little animals were, and if they were safe during a storm. I built her a playhouse out just beyond the treeline that she would go to when the storms weren't to bad. Sometimes I would take her out at night and camp out there so she could listen to the owls calling to each other. She would try to imitate them to see if they would come closer so she could get a look at them; and sometimes try to get a picture to put in her scrapbook. She would put the time and date and then make a few notes about the animal or bird she had spotted and observed that day or night. I told her one day she could write a book about all the things she had observed throughout her childhood. She really liked that idea and said she would. Sometimes she would have friends over to play and they would go out to her treehouse and stay all day. She would show them her collection and teach them how to make things out of the stuff they they would find in the woods. She was very patient and would make a great teacher, or doctor.

She liked people a lot, and she was always helping people when she saw someone in need. All her friends loved her because she would share all of her stuff with them when they came to our house to play. She made a dreamcatcher for show and tell to take to school. and everybody who saw it was amazed at how talented she was at making things. Now when I go out to the playhouse. I sit and watch and listen to the wildlife and think back on how Destiny used to watch them and I remember how her face would light up and how she would laugh when she saw them playing with each other. I laugh a little and I cry a little thinking about her. But she went home to be with the Lord, and I miss her so much. When a gentle breeze blows I think I hear her laughing, and I know she is in a happy place playing her flute and making beautiful music for the Lord and her ancestors.