# "The Road" by Leo Cardez

Last Updated: March 2, 2021 11:55 AM
Month: 06 - June
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mRXciLV7rvXDHBi72zkcyX4m_R1QatMsxrvZC58DXTU/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**The Road by Leo Cardez**

To my naive eyes the road ahead was clear. I could not yet see the mountain of suffering and self-discovery that lay ahead. So is the paradox of life, all is well until one day it isn’t. We will all be tested, no one is immune. This is the story of my biggest test to date: incarceration.

After nearly two decades of climbing the corporate ladder and a few years after finally building a good relationship with my estranged family, I at last, had the life I’d always dreamed of. I was elated as I looked out my Lake Shore Drive penthouse. I had a six figure salary as vice president of a global public relations agency. I was driving the very car that hung on a poster in my childhood bedroom. I summered in Europe and dated gorgeous models. It was everything I had ever wanted. I had to bite my lip to stop from smiling as my friends and family awed over my success. This is it: you made it, I kept thinking to myself. But, the storm had already arrived, I just didn’t know it yet.

One morning, while recovering from another night of debauchery, there was a stern knock on my door, “Police, we have a warrant for your arrest.” The following few days were a blur of interviews, frantic cells, jail cells, and court appearances. And just like that, I lost everything I had ever worked for. By the time the final gavel dropped almost three years and over a hundred thousand dollars later I stood in front of the judge as just a shell of a man I had once been.

Back in my cell at the county jail I was told I would be leaving for an in-processing center the next morning where I’d stay for at least a couple months before being shipped off to prison to serve my sentence. I can remember my despair. It was like being stuck in a barrel at the bottom of the ocean with no options-- there is nothing worse. In many real ways, I was watching my own death and burial.

The following weeks were shadowy and surpremely uncomfortable, a litany of doctor visits, strip searches, and an introduction into my new para-military style of life. I was indoctrinated to the convict code and a new hierarchy-- which I quickly and sadly learned I was at the bottom of. I couldn’t sleep. I barely ate. I was hemorrhaging friends and family. I was falling deeper into the well and could barely make it out any light.

But as the everyday doings of my “real” life-- dinners out, week-ends with my daughter, steady stream of Tinder dates-- fell away completely, I began to notice the continuous present that had replaced it. For someone “on-the-new” being vigilant of your surroundings equates survival. I had to quickly devolve into a more highly tuned, instinctual being. The law of the jungle is clear: the weak become easy prey.

A life barren of my real world idiosyncrasies was surprisingly simple. My only goal was subsistence: sleeping, eating, hydrating, and, occasionally, bathing. I no longer felt guilty about ignoring emails or not returning calls, no longer worried (as I constantly had) that my various girlfriends and lies would catch up to me or that I wouldn’t fall in love in time to have more children. How curious to realize that so much of my existence was a construct that could be exploded overnight; and how curious too, to see so clearly how little all that “stuff” really meant in the grand scheme of life. It wasn’t that staying in touch or having children were unimportant, but staying alive and in control, mattered so much more.

Meanwhile, I quickly became aware and appreciative for the bonds we forge as human beings. I was so moved by the handful of friends and family that stood by me and were willing to try to help-- all in their unique and special ways. Relationships with family were stripped to their core, as if the years with all their distancing had now come to nothing. My parents and sister cared for me as a child, and with few expectations, I gave in gracefully. To receive these blessings was humbling and an inspiring testament to the fact that many people are basically good and loyalty truly exists. It was like attending my own funeral and seeing who would attend and truly mourn and who would simply go through the paces for appearance’s sake. Most of us will spend a lifetime not really knowing who to trust and who loves us-- I did.

When I was finally allowed to go to yard (outdoor recreation) late that winter, I began to spend those forty-five minutes roaming the expensive rec area wearing grey sweats, black boots, and a blue knit cap. I often hadn’t showered or even brushed my teeth, but I didn’t care-- who was I trying to impress? This new lunacy of mine was strangely liberating as was losing all the old social etiquette rules I always felt compelled to follow. I stayed mostly to myself and minded my own business until I felt like I was the invisible man. It’s amazing what dark magic these walls have- they are able to take so much from a man. But, strangely, I reveled in this new anonymity, this feeling of non-existence, of the unexpected pleasure of becoming a deserter of the real world. Oh, I knew I still existed-- I hadn’t completely unmoored-- but, I lived in the fringes. And so it was that I crunched through the snow watching my breath, dreaming of a different past and unknown future. I fantasized about the book I’d write now that I had the time or the great physique I would soon have now that I would be pumping iron with the rest of the gym rats. Sometimes I even praised myself for having withstood the onslaught of hate and anger my arrest had caused and now this incarceration; and for finding a way to stay positive through it all. Human beings are resilient, I said to myself aloud. You are resilient, came the voice from deep inside a secret chamber of my heart.

It's been five years since my initia; incarceration and prison life has become my new normal. I am no longer the invisible man. I have friends, job, and volunteer duties (I also shower and brush my teeth regularly again). But every so often, I think back to those first new months and its revelations-- to the strength (and weakness) of my relationships, to my mother’s unconditional devotion, to my liberation from the real world and the faith it gave me in my own toughness. And that’s when I am overcome by gratitude from being alive, yes, but also for having known, just for a moment, the strange exhilaration of being dead.

My journey has no foreseeable end, but I know now that whatever new mountain may hide around the next bend will not break me. I will endure… regardless of the pain. This time spent at one of America’s many gray bar human warehouses has taught me an invaluable lesson: freedom can be found through pain.