# "The Balance Life" by Martin Vicario

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 12 - December
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KT8SBQXSu1M7_YRxtPvJ9i1pdco7iXn7DoQorbcH-Qk/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**“The Balance Life” by Martin Vicario**

20 years in prison, and now I was going home, and I did go home. But being civilly committed was looming over me. I was home for two months and then I was subpoenaed to be incarcerated into civil commitment, just like that! I had not broken any law or reoffended. I was sent into confinement solely on the word of a State psychiatrist who claimed that I **might** reoffend. I had completed twenty years in the system without ever receiving a major disciplinary case. Furthermore, I was never a psych patient. Overall, I was blessed with good health and worked hard to stay in shape. During my incarceration, I dedicated myself to education, starting with an Associate’s Degree and completing my academics with a Master’s Degree in Humanities from U of H-Clearlake. I was, and continue to be thankful to God for all the people involved that dedicated themselves and believed in what they were doing. Especially my professors, for the gift of knowledge and courage to recognize that I do and can make a difference in the world.

20 years is a long time. A very long time, and if a man has a conscience, he will look into himself and answer those questions that he had never considered, such as “who am I?”, “why was I created?”, and “what is my purpose?” In other words, I had a lot of time to think and take inventory of myself. Prison is a tough place to be, and I don’t wish it upon anyone. I believe had I never gone to prison, I would not be the man I am today. Prison was a humbling experience and I am thankful for that. But it also gave me insight to the pains, and there are many, that we are experiencing in America today. When someone tells me they feel broken, lost, or in despair, I can sincerely say, “I feel you…”.

Ironically, society is under the impression that all people in prison are thugs, but this is not true. Prison is made up for real people, the common citizen. People incarcerated want to do their time and go home to their families. I am not saying that prisons do not hold some evil people, they do! But my experience showed me that the majority do change for the better and seek an opportunity to give back to society and pay their fair share of taxes. What an honor and privilege it is to work, whether I am washing dishes, doing the landscape, or working the sewage system… what an honor it is to work and be welcomed back home. I am thankful for people that believe in the U.S. Constitution and in second chances. I hope people will consider that one day, they may need a second chance, an opportunity. Take into account the parable of the Forgiving father in the book of Luke chapter 15:11-32.

As I look back, I cannot count how many critics and stone-throwers I encountered, All I could do was listen. It is a sobering experience. Yet, as the years passed me by, I learned that some of those finger-pointers had made bad choices and fallen onto hard times. And a couple of them had become guilty of the same crime I had committed or some other crime. Even worse, is when a stone-throwers child goes to prison or is lost to the streets due to some vices. Consider what is going on today in America: politicians, judges, and preachers, are being confronted for their past and present sexual misconduct. These are the same people that have created the greatest prison industry in the world for the benefit of special interest groups and profiteers. And they have been getting away with it for the longest time, but it has finally caught up to them. These stone-throwers are twice as guilty as those they condemn to prison for years and years. Hopefully, being confronted and then taking responsibility will bring a change of heart and a deeper understanding that the choices we make affect our families and communities. Things fall apart when we only think of ourselves. A prison system designed exclusively for profits and warehousing human beings, is a reflection of a country falling apart. This kind of system does not help the offender or the victim. I am, however, grateful for the people that serve the public to bring a positive change, and do it from their heart. I call these people, the Peacemakers, and am thankful for their service.

I am now four years into civil commitment, a program that is unconstitutional (double jeopardy), punitive, and a life sentence. In a couple of days, it will be thanksgiving and I wonder about my family… It is difficult to accept that there are political prisoners in America. I know my family misses me, especially my wife. I miss them too! I know that I am in their prayers, as is our country. I am still alive and believe change is coming. For that, I am THANKFUL!