# "The Greatest Accomplishment Ever!" by Steven Adam Miguel Umholtz

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 06 - June
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MlEMGfON4xk2AozzP6VgBSr2Z0kLEkk-6Kq7-IGQ0DU/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**The Greatest Accomplishment Ever! by Steven Adam Miguel Umholtz**

****My first accomplishment in life I remember, was learning to tie my shoes. A task my Mama taught me to do. I learned to swim, ride a bike, fly a kite, to fish, hunt and shoot a gun, to read and write, to milk goats, raise bees, to weld, to drive a lawn tractor, plant a garden, drive a stick shift car, to operate a farm tractor and front end loader, a road grader, and a backhoe. How to cut and split firewood, rebuild chainsaws and to climb trees for a living. I even owned my own saw mill. I learned many trade skills (thanks to my dad) like electrical, plumbing, carpentry, stonework, granite and marble, and how to sell anything. I learned to cook and to can foods, fly a plane, play a harmonica, and how to invent things. I accomplished getting married and having ten kids with one wife and delivering each of their 10 kids mostly at home. We owned our own house and paid it all of all at once in cash. I accomplished owning several companies and being the boss! I was on M-TV The Discovery Channel on the Rat's Hole BIke Show, American THunder, Born To Ride TV with Ron Gallettie. I became a world class photographer and a free press agent. I hung around and got to know a lot of famous people like Jay Barberry with Discovery Ch., Kalnay-Kal from OK, David Allen Coe and his family, Travis Tri, the ban with monthly crew, Lee Greenwood and family, Indian Larry, Robie Conevil and Conevil, Michel Balard the owner of the full throttle saloon, all the band with Molly Hatchet, Miss America from Orlando Ms.Burlap, Miss Rats Hole, Miss Playboy, Miss Sturgis SD, The Dom Triplets from Playboy, Jade from Hustler Magazine, Ice Tea and Coco, the Porn Star Jana Jameson and a lot of other top models. All respectfully in their clothes and/or outfits of course! Almost every famous bike builder on the planet thanks to the fact I invented the greatest metal polish called bling master. As Mr.Tom Dugout put it “To great”! I accomplished owning and learning to drive my 30 foot limo super stretch. I owned three top american paint horses. I went to Las Vegas to the Sema Show with my Company BlingMaster. I also won every competition at every old car, bike, truck, boat and airplane show I went to. I sponsored an NHRA top fuel drag racing car and a competition fishing boat. I was friends with David L. Whitaker before he became “LarrytheCableGuy”. I met Fl.Gov.Jeb Bush more than once. I went over 198 MPH in my race car and on my bike and barely lived to tell about it. I became a Lic. Paramedic and Fireman and drove a 3,200 gal. SuperTanker FireTruck, Mr.Refill! I got in the cage at the circus with a live 500 pound brown bear. They putter, it’s a neat sound they make when their content. I used to get in the cage to help feed a 15l ong alligator. I worked with and owned big snakes and got to hold a lot of poisonous snakes. I butchered many kinds of animals for food and tanned their skins to make stuff. I learned to stitch and repair saddles, shoes and boots. Owned my own boats and learned how to water ski on one sky. I accomplished my PADI Lic. as a certified SCUBA diver. I wrote my first book “A great little book.” And my second book “Another great little book.” by Steven umholtz and get the, published in the poetry section posted free at [www.prisonsfoundation.org](http://www.prisonsfoundation.org/) these are a lot of the things I have accomplished in life, but not all of the, by far because I’m not done accomplishing things yet! I met (in 1985) Mr.John Gotti, once in N.Y. for brunch! I was on ww.tv for 3 years in the quire at First Bapt. Church of Orlanda F.L.! I took Opra lessons too. I got my BlingMaster products approved by the U.S. NAVY and that was not easy. I had a website TV show with BlingMaster.com, but none of these worldly accomplishments no matter how hard I strived to be the best at all I do, make me as a person any better than anyone else, nor will any of it accomplish getting me into heaven. My greatest accomplishment and most important of all was when I truly realized nothing I have done or ever could do in and of myself is good enough to get me into heaven or save me from going to hell with all my accomplishments, and life is short! The one and only thing I can and did do was confess my sins to God and accept that his son Jesus Christ my saviour accomplished making going to heaven possible for me and everyone when he died on the cross for me and you and was resurrected 3 days later. That was the greatest accomplishment ever! My Mama and Daddy taught me that. Thanks for everything Dad, and Mama I will see you in heaven some day! (The End.)