# The Spectrum by Jeff Wager

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

# The Spectrum by Jeff Wager

I dare say that many, in today’s age, would believe that there is goodness, a supreme being, God, who is Creator and Ruler of this world. They also believe there is evil, a fallen being, Satan, who opposes God Contrarily, some people have darker views. They see only a world of evil, from somewhere out there (with only feigned goodness contrived only for selfish ends), but no God. 

Edgar Allan Poe and Nathaniel Hawthorne have writings which stand on conflicting ends of this spectrum. Ironically, Poe, in The Fall of the House of Usher, and Hawthorne, in Young Goodman Brown, both use scriptural analogies and references to promote these opposing views.

In The Fall of the House of Usher, Poe refers to “images in the pool”, the “silent tarn”, as having “no affinity with the air of heaven”, but rather “an air of stern, deep, and irredeemable gloom”. This, of course, is contrary to the Biblical notion of the redeeming grace in Christ. Further, Poe regards Roderick Usher as having a “cadaverous complexion”, “very palid”, but with “a nose of a delicate Hebrew model” whom he has found as “a bounded slave” (a reference quite similar to Hebrew slavery in Egypt). In such helpless and inescapable doom, Poe perceives, “the futility in all attempt at cheering mind from which darkness… pour[s]ed, forth… in one unceasing radiation of gloom”.

Ironically, Poe punctuates his godless view by using familiar Biblical references found in a poem, “The Haunted Palace”, which he cites. This poem speaks of “good angels”, a “radiant palace”, “round about a throne, where sitting (Porphyrogene!)” the mark of royalty, “the wit and wisdom of their King”. These phrases paint visuals a Christian would perceive as references to Christ and His heaven; however, Poe, still citing this same poem, paints a picture of helpless gloom by referencing “evil things in robes of sorrow… travelers… to a discordant melody”, who, although laughing, will “smile no more”. Poe portrays Roderick as having no light in his eye. Roderick is simply “gazing upon vacancy”, hopeless. At this point in the story, there is a tempestuous storm in Roderick’s world, darkness and terrible gloom is pounding. Poe’s character reads a book to Roderick to “pass away the terrible night”. In the book, the hero must slay the dragon to win a protective shield (much like Christ conquering and becoming a Christian’s protective shield); however, as the story unfolds, one is seen to wail, “miserable wretch that I am!” for, with others, he had placed the “living in the tomb” (as was Jesus) who came froth with blood upon white robes and “the voice of a thousand waters is heard” (as God); but in the end, “the deep and dark tarn closed sullenly and silently” ushering in the final gloom where the protective shield was to no avail. This godless, irredeemable gloom is far from the hope we see in Nathaniel Hawthorne’s “Young Goodman Brown”.

Hawthorne begins his story with Young Goodman Brown declaring his Faith (his wife). His Faith pleads with him to not wander off (much like wisdom in the book of Proverbs). Goodman does not denounce his Faith, but he does ignore her a bit. He does so with feelings of guilt as he cries “Poor little Faith! … what a wretch am I.” He roams away from her rationalizing the evil intent of his departure. He is quite aware “the devil himself [could] be at my very elbow”. “Take my staff.. Friend,” the devil would say, “reasoning as we go”. Goodman insisted his family were all “honest men and good Christians”, but the devil contradicts that belief and creates doubt by pointing out the sins in others: Goodman’s grandfather, father, deacons, courts, governor. Basically, the devil is saying to Goodman, “You may as well come along with me, everyone else is.” This is precisely the role of Satan in the Christian Bible; and just as Job struggled with faith, Goodman responds “[but] there is my Faith”. Hearing this, the devil presses Goodman further by pointing out that one of Goodman’s old teachers, Goody Cloyse, who was supposed to be “pious and [an] exemplary dame” spent her life glorifying the devil. Goodman questions this discovery, “what if a wretched old woman do[es] choose to go to the devil… is that any reason why I should quit my dear Faith and go after her?”. He then gets subtle. He encourages goodman to be in no rush but rather to come along the sinful oath at his own pace. “Take your time but keep coming”, the devil seemed to say.

Goodman would hear no such thing! “With heaven above and Faith below, I will stand firm against the devil!” Goodman prayed. He called for his Faith. Here we see Hawthorne giving hope to the reader by way of Biblical analogies and references. Goodman believes there is no good on earth without Faith. Without Faith “the road grew wider and drearier and in wilderness...that guides mortal man to evil… the nature of mankind.” Goodman cries, “Faith! Faith! Look up to heaven and resist the wicked one”. Suddenly, Goodman’s eyes are opened. He is awake. He sees his Faith who is “bursting into such joy at the sight of him”. In this story, Hawthorne gives us hope in Faith and warns that shrinking from the “bosom of Faith” is gloom.

There are two opposing ends of the spectrum where we read Poe’s The Fall of the House of Usher and Hawthorne’s Young Goodman Brown. Poe leaves us feeling the “irredeemable gloom” where there is “no affinity with the air of heaven”. He artistically uses Biblical analogies and references to convince us of inescapable and helpless gloom contrary to the claims of the Bible from which he extracts them. We are left with “vacant eyes” who have buried life, bloody and innocent, in a tomb; and who, therefore, are irredeemable with no protection and no hope. On the other hand, Hawthorne uses similar Biblical analogies and references in establishing Faith in the reader’s heart. The reader feels hope for Goodman, hope for life; and the reader cheers for Faith. “Don’t denounce your Faith!” a reader would cry to Goodman, “let go of the devil’s staff and live!” It matters not if the whole world were to do wrong. Hawthorne encourages the reader to stand with Goodman and say, “With heaven above and Faith below, I will stand firm against the devil!” As we look into the heavens, we will see Faith bursting into joy when we search for her. Our hope is on one end of the spectrum, but not the other.