# "They Said They Came in Peace" by Nkrumah Lumumba Valier

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AQAy4sb3lUQsn3GQBFxztJMqv-SdRPKxV9AJCQYsHy4/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2015

**"They Said They Came in Peace" by Nkrumah Lumumba Valier**

I can’t believe we ever trusted those people and invited them into our country and our lives. They made us believe they wanted to be friends and to study our culture. First, they told us of their God they called Christ Jesus. We listened and tried to understand out of respect for their choice of belief. But we only know of one God and he has never appeared to us in the form of a white man or any color of man. Because no one has seen God.

My people were told if we say that Christ Jesus is our God, Lord, and Savior and that he died on the cross for us and his blood forgave us of our sins, that we will be forgiven and allowed to enter heaven when we die. This Christ Jesus is not our God and we will be cursed and perish and burn in hell if we should ever think or say such a thing when we know who God is. Who are these strange people and why did God bring them to our land?

When we rejected their beliefs and ways of thinking, they got angry at us and called us ignorant and when unlearned people no better than animals living in the wild. And that we were not worthy of the love of Jesus Christ. The men dressed in all black attire quickly changed from kind and caring to hostile and scary. The men in our village asked them to leave because they were no longer welcome in our village. One of the men struck the leader of our village across his face with a metal walking stick, leaving a deep cut over the right eye of Tan-Chi Tran. The blood poured from the opening above Tan-Chi Tran’s right eye, filling his right eye with blood. Blood dripping down his face and onto his clothes as Tan-Chi Tran stood there silently. The white face stranger yelled out in rage, “May all of you brown devils burn on earth and the hottest pits of hell for your rejection of Jesus Christ our Lord, master and Go---!” Young Pan-Chi Tran’s machete blade severed the man’s head from his neck and his head fell to the ground, just like wheat and bamboo when the blade cuts through it. Pan-Chi Tran looked at his father Tan-Chi Tran and said, for your honor and our people, the strangers will die on this day and we will see if they can rise from their death like their so-called Christ Jesus. All but one of the missionaries were executed by cutting their heads off and then placed on sticks placed on the roads leading to the village as a warning to any other white face stranger that would enter their village.

The one missionary that escaped the village ran as fast as he could to the rowboat, as his very life depended on getting out of that village and back to the ship in the harbor that brought him and his people there. He was so scared and running so fast that he tripped and fell, hitting his head on a large rock, breaking his neck, just a few feet away from his row boat. He died instantly.

One week later as we slept in our village, more strangers came on the cover of the night. They came with weapons of such we did not possess. They burned our huts and we ran out. The weapons they had sent small pieces of metal that pierced through our bodies, killing many instantly. The young men tried to fight back, but our weapons were only farming tools, no match against the weapons the white face strangers used to massacre every man in our village. Man women and children were killed as well.

Once they gained control of the village, it was just women and children left alive. We were forced to sit huddled together with the weapons pointed at us. They were all yelling at us. Then two of them grabbed Kemi and dragged her away from us as she fought back. They began to beat her and tear her clothes off until she was nude. One by one the other men grabbed us, even our daughters as young as ten years of age. The rapes lasted for hours as they took turns one after another as they got drunk. This type of horror our people have never experienced; only the devil could do such a thing especially to a child. I turned my face to Kemi to let her know that she should be strong as a drunken white face strange man forced his way inside of me. I watched as the light in Kemi’s eyes went out, her moans and cries of pain went silent and her movement stopped. Kemi was dead, but the white face stranger continued pushing himself in and out of her innocence that was no more. I closed my eyes wishing that I was somewhere else. The pain between my legs numbed after an hour of being raped. I stopped counting how many men after the seventh one. I just closed my eyes as tight as I could and let them do what they wanted hoping they would not kill me.

Maybe two or three hours later it seemed to be over. They all had fallen asleep around us. Some still laying on top of the woman or girl they raped. I looked around for my daughter Ma-ling. She was not too far away from me, tears flowing down her face. I looked around to see if it was safe. I didn’t see any of the white face strangers standing or away, so I crawled over to Ma-ling and carefully picked up the knife the man must have held to Ma-Ling’s throat while he raped her. I signaled for Ma-Ling to be quiet as I lifted the man’s head who was laying on top of my daughter. And just as his eyes opened looking directly into Ma-Ling’s eyes, I cut his throat before he could make a sound.

We all did the same to as many of these devils as we could as they slept for what they did to us and for murdering our sons and men. We all moved silently but quickly as we covered our nude bodies with clothing. We escaped and are now traveling inside the canals of the swamps in the woods with the tall grass to hide us from the white face strangers. When they awake and see that we are gone and what we did before we left they will be angry and surely want to find us and kill us all. We have been traveling inside the swamps for two hours and we are very tired, but the fear will not let us rest or stop. Ma-Ling has clung to me and has not said one word, but I can see the terror and desperation in her eyes and face, wanting to get somewhere safe. And what has happened to her and all of the girls and women in our village we will never forget.

The first light of morning has entered the sky so we are no longer protected by the dark as shelter to hide us from the new enemies that will come look for us soon. We are not too far from the Nugieyn Clan. They are warriors and not farmers like us. So we must warn them of this evil that has entered our land and tell them what they did to our people and village so that they can be ready and spread the word to the other clans and come together as a unit to drive these white face devils back into the sea and to wherever they come from. These evil white face strangers that claimed to come in peace.