# "Thwarted" by Dan Perkins

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 11 - November
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WYFgRRwGw9UkCwNBLVpVCbGe0NBrIG3bIBW9Sqbcz4M/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Thwarted By Dan Perkins**

I was arrested and taken to jail. Then taken to court and assigned. I couldn’t afford a defense attorney, so I had a public defender, who told me I’m being stuck out. She had me write a statement of my ease. I wrote a truthful statement, honestly depicting what happened, and gave it to my PD. Next time I saw her, she handed me a typewritten copy of my statement. When I glanced over, it didn’t appear to be mine. I told her it isn’t mine. She said “yes it is.” I told her that’s not what I wrote, or what I meant. That’s not what happened. She told me to just take it back to my cell and look over it-make corrections if I need to. So I did. I bled all over it with a red pencil. Later it occured to me that it was a cross-examination, to see if I could keep my story straight. Still, I was prosecuted according to the prosecution’s version of my statement. He even looked me in the eyes in the courtroom, and told me what I did (his lying version). As we went along, I finally asked my P.D. why I couldn’t tell my story the way it actually happened. She told me it would seem I was trying to put all the blame on my victim. “...uh...victim?..Wait a minute...who’s really the victim? I’m getting railroaded!''Designated victim. Parker Brothers board games-”Lie, cheat, and steal,” huh? It wasn’t my intent to shirk or to place any blame on anyone. My true and only intent was to tell my story, my story, the way it happened. But nope, ‘twas not to be. I am convicted on conjecture, on charges I’m not guilty of-on something that was always a misdemeanor, until fairly recently. The prosecutor gave me 55-to-life. I’m eleven years into it now. Wait a minute. Where’s the judge in all of this? He’s only a figurehead. He pronounces the sentence the prosecutor recommends. Okay, so here I am at RJD.

A restorative justice group was formed. I joined, thinking maybe I’d finally get a chance to tell my story the way it happened. Guys were taking turns telling their stories. When my turn came, I started telling my story, got interrupted and got told I couldn’t tell it that way, and was told how I was “supposed” to tell it. Okay, I revised my story and told it the way i was told to tell it. But then it was someone else’s story, not mine. A lie. Fiction. Okay, I went ahead with the program. But from then on, it was all bullshit. Late into the course, one of the facilitators had us form small 4 or 5 man discussion groups. I have a hearing impairment, and use hearing aids. I can hear loud enough, but some sounds, especially soft sounds, don’t come across clearly, if at all, and acoustic echoes badly distorted speech sounds, and my hearing is over-sensitive to some sounds. The hearing aids amplify only, but they don’t clarify sounds. In a crowd, I don’t dare turn them on. In that room, the chapel, one or two guys in each group talking, the acoustic echoes turned everything anyone said into unintelligible cacophony to my hearing. I couldn’t participate. I left the group. I tried CGA, (Criminals and Gangmembers Anonymous). CGA meets in the dining hall. Acoustics are even worse. I tried for a little while, but … I’m not a gang member - never have been. Criminal? I have no criminal activities I’m addicted tim that I make a habit of, or a lifestyle of. I don’t have a criminal lifestyle. I make my living through corporate employment, I don’t do, and didn’t do, what people think I do, or did. I didn’t think it would be wise for me to go before the CGA crowd and crow about my conviction. They couldn’t help but get the wrong idea. So I bailed. Thwarted.

But things seem to be changing now. Let’s see what happens.

“Thwarted” Dan Perkins