# "Thwart Masters" by Joseph Alvin Parrish

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 11 - November
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/123T0PX2MAzL5C9cwwivBzknXJM1qovBmOB2GOdTEyqs/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**“Thwart Masters” by Joseph Alvin Parrish**

Hey how are you all theme writing fans doing? Well if you dare to recall, I once was a faithful, active participant of Durland’s Alternative Library Theme-Writing Club. I am saying ONCE because it has been awhile since I last participated. Well, to all who can easily remember me this is a notification that I’m back, more eager than ever to participate, and to those of you who have never read any of my works, “Surprised!” I was almost defeated, but thanks today to my higher power for giving me a boost of never ending inspiration. I refuse to be thwarted from sharing a part of my life with you. I know that there are times when we can become our own worst enemy, and there are also times when we allow others to become our downfall. As things look now with me being in this state prison, in a sense of the word I’ve been thwarted from the opportunity of doing a whole bunch of things, and let me tell you what a state of mind that actually is. Let me give a few examples of what I actually mean in my quest for newfound freedom. How wonderful it would be to be able to freely say, and do. Come on and jump in the car and take this ride with me. If I guess right, you’re in the same predicament as I am in? So, my theme-writing friends, when was the last time that you were able to go out and purchase yourself a good meal and to eat it enjoyably? When was the last time that you were a decent wage for a job well done and had some money in your pockets and bank account? I’m talking about those dollar bills y’all. How and why did you allow yourself to be thwarted? As for me, I allowed my drug addiction to call all of the shots. Mr Shot-Caller, I thought you were a baller. Now look where you’ve got me at. You’ve temporarily taken away my freedom to pick and choose. My my! What such stupidity.

All the time I thought that you were good for me, and I couldn’t leave you alone. “Yes,” you had me fooled. You knew what you were doing, with your intentions to thwart me from enjoying my intentions. My drug addiction was at the root of all my problems and left me a victim to my circumstances. I keep telling myself that I’ve been temporarily thwarted. It’s my own downfall. Now one made me do anything. Yet still, that left me a victim of my own circumstances.

There are so many things and activities that I’m not able to do at this present time. Even the simple little ole things that we tend to take for granted, I’ve been temporarily thwarted. Right now I can’t dress up real nice and attend a church service. I am forced to wear state issue clothes. I’m talking about these prison whites. I can’t take a bath or a shower when I want to because for one, there are no available bathtubs around here, only a shower room which provides you no privacy. The system, I think, is designed to strip you from all decency and the right to privacy. What if you could leave on the weekends, as long as you are back before midnight on late Sunday. WOuld having that privilege be a deterrent for you to not do any other foolish behavior? Would that privilege keep you in line? I would call you periodically, but I don’t have free access to a phone.

There have been many times that I have wanted to send you a bouquet of roses, but unfortunately, the florist doesn’t come down to these parts. The mailman will not even deliver them roses to you because he has got too much mail. Hey, you all should know that I would like to do something, or whatever to better myself. Something that would help to boost my self-esteem, and give me a sense of accomplishment, and a better chance at making parole.

My desire now, is to right all the wrongs that I’ve committed and a determined desire to take precaution against thwarting myself. At this present time my desire is to be successful and to be victorious over everything that wants to thwart me. I am looking to receive another chance to get on the other side of these penitentiary locked gates, and run as far as I can from ALL of these barbed-wire fences. I can’t ignore, neither can I deny this temporary existence. I’ve been temporarily thwarted. What about outside support, do you have anyone out there on the outside of these prison gates that cares about you and will help you in any shape, form or fashion? As for me, I am temporarily thwarted, being that I am the remaining few of a dying breed. Unfortunately, I am fifty-four years of age, and I am childless. I guess in that sense I am thwarted, since I have no seed to keep my heritage alive. I often wonder why and what might have been. Satan, most likely has laughed at me more than a thousand times knowing that I was unable to get any woman pregnant. He laughs at me not being able to produce children. His job is to kill and destroy, but Jesus came that I might have life and have it more abundantly. The story of my life is not over. I am more than a conqueror in Christ Jesus who strengthens me. Don’t you guys and girls lose hope like I did when I threw in the towel. I lost all my hope and desire to continue participating in the theme writing program. Keep your heads up, and stay in the game.

I have been locked up for a total time of six years, and the parole board keeps giving me set offs after set offs. Every time that I come up for parole, every single year for the last six years, it has been a one year set off. By all appearances, it appears as if I have been thwarted, and that I might as well just settle down and call this place home. I just don’t understand why the parole board is so reluctant to release me. Yeah, I’ve been back and forth here for a total of six different times which makes me a repeat offender. That however, should not give them the reason to make an attempt to continually thwart me, preventing me from making parole. The parole board treats us as if we’re cattle on the market to be sold. To me, it’s a big money market scheme. Why would they want to lose their meal ticket when they can keep their feet on our neeks? Big time thwart.