# "Toddy" by Norman McDonald

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lhkMGMN0qGy7s_gbOgkobpQVUb6cXA0N4HJh2hvLC1Q/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

***Toddy* by Norman McDonald**

Toddy, the name of our Spitz/Toy Collie mix canine family member, with whom I had so closely bonded, lived in an era of human history where it was not generally customary to neuter pets who were allowed unrestricted access to the freedom of the 'great outdoors.' Toddy was so obsessed with the pursuit of the opposite sex of his species, that he once returned to the boarding kennel, some fifteen miles away frorn our house, where he had stayed during one of our family trips, for a romantic interlude with a female boxer dog he met there, and had to be rounded up again after the kennel manager called our home to ask, "Is Toddy there?" My mother was indulged to answer, "No, he's not here right now, did you want to speak with him?" The kennel manager was not amused. He responded, "He is certainly here. Could you please come back and pick up your crazy over-sexed dog… again!”

As I recall very little of this episode, have to reply on the description of events offered by my beloved mother, who never tired of recalling the details of this event. Apparently, at the age of two, with the urge to go out exploring immediately after waking in the morning, still dressed in pajamas and bedroom slippers, Toddy and I set off. Down the street, we encountered a lady's home, who had just finished painting her carport some shade of brown. She had presumably gone inside to take a break or clean up, and the paint and brushes were still out in the open. The temptation was too much to resist, so I decided to continue her work, only this time all over her new 19, metallic pink two-tone Chevy Bel-Air. The car was painted as far up as I could reach, after which Toddy and I sauntered home to get some breakfast, only missing one of my slippers. It was obviously left behind in our haste to depart the crime scene. I can only imagine the look of that lady's face when she came back out to see her new car, metallic pink, and now brown 'three-tone' paint job. As I was covered in brown paint, and missing one bedroom slipper, Mom had to know that in minutes there would be an urgent knock at the front door. My Morn let me answer the door, presumably in the spirit of a sense accountability, there standing one quite infuriated adult female with a thoroughly painted bedroom slipper in hand. Apparently, I looked up at the lady, and .Ing the sliPPer, thanked her in my quite dense Southern accent, closing the door. The next knock at the door was quite a bit more urgent sounding than the first, so Morn answered this one, and I recall hearing language I had never heard before, given that this was a time before residential cable television. I would expect that Dad was even less amused when he had to come home early from work to attempt the removal of paint from this woman's car.

As I don't recall any malice of forethought involved in this adventure, during a visit to my paternal grandmother's house, I let Toddy into her chicken yard, and although outnumbered, he acquitted himself admirably in battle, leaving a substantial body count on the battlefield of Grandma's prize heritage chickens. Seldom have I ever witnessed such a one-sided victory, until alerted to the action by the sound of intense poultry versus canine warfare, Grandma came on the scene in a suitable order of rage. Her cowardly rooster was seen hiding on the other side of the coop, presumably to save his hide to fight another day against a less portentous opposing force.

When we were unceremoniously transplanted into the foreign lands of the north, as Toddy was pursuing one of his perpetual quests for female companionship, a nefarious neighbor had peppered his hindquarters with a shotgun loaded with birdshot. Ever after, Toddy was deathly afraid of any loud report like fireworks and would exit whatever building he was in, in such an expedient fashion, typically through plate glass windows or doors. Toddy's athletic ability would have impressed any track and field coach — he could clear an eight foot fence from a standing jump, so a glass door was not the kind of barrier that could restrain him, once he decided that he needed to be on the opposite side of it, due to the sound of fireworks, the scent of she-canines, or even just boredom. The trouble was, Toddy and I were quite often dangerously bored, offering yet another opportunity for our own personal 'age of exploration.'

In Toddy's and my first winter in northwestern Ohio, having moved there in the summer of that year, it was time again to get out and explore the local hinterlands, although now thoroughly frozen over. Both of us, having been born in northeastern Florida, didn't quite know what to make of all of the cold, white stuff all over the ground, not that it should serve to diminish another of our extended journeys of exploration. At the end of the suburban street, 'Mount Airy Road,' upon which our house was situated, was a wooded area that had previously escaped our attention as a possible avenue of investigation, until the absence of leaves (another foreign artifact of the winter season in northern U.S.) made it so that we could see past the previously dense foliage and into what appeared to be a new neighborhood to survey. So, down the road and off through the woods we went, into what turned into a quagmire of ice, mud and thickets of brush, still bearing their thorns and 'wait-a-minute' vines. As Toddy was breaking trail ahead, I was keen to follow, despite being now water-logged and cold as any transplanted young Floridian had ever conceived of being. After we emerged on the other side of the wooded area, another nice suburban area was before us, and we walked the street a few blocks to try and find a way back wherein we wouldn't have to traverse the dark, wet forest wilderness again.

After winding through what seemed like a maze of streets and drives, 'we' decided it was time to submit to the embarrassing concept of requesting assistance from a local resident. I am still amazed that the lady upon whose door I knocked was willing to take into her home a clearly alien, four year old youth, still with what must have been to her a clearly alien sounding Southern accent, and his totally soaked, muddy and briar encrusted canine crony. As soon as this benevolent soul had provided me some warm and dry hand knit woolen socks, she summoned the local police to arrange for Toddy's and my return to home base. The gravity of the situation had completely escaped us, but Mom believed otherwise and I was unable to convince her that it was totally Toddy's idea, and I was just along to keep him out of trouble, or to prevent his being shot again in his incessant lifelong quest for the widespread distribution of his genetic material. The vet bills from having to extract birdshot from his butt must have been crazy expensive.

I have to wonder how many of Toddy's great-great-great... grandchildren are still walking the earth, causing havoc and mayhem in the accompaniment of some young adventurer. Given that the contemporary trend of neutering pets may have severed some of Toddy's line of descendants, I can't help but believe that with as much of his life was devoted to procreation, that his lineage could possibly be missing from the planet. Surely somewhere there are 'next-gen' Toddy's around the neighborhood, in search of romance and adventure. Likewise, one has to wonder from what ostentatious stock he came. When asked what kind of dog he was, frequently following one of his numerous crazy stunts, given Toddy's predisposition to jumping of climbing over or through any given obstacle, Mom would typically reply that he was, "part Toy-Collie, part Spitz, and part monkey."

As in those famous lines from Shakespeare's 'Julius Caesar' : Act III, Scene I:

"With Ate' by his side, come hot from hell, shall... *Cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war!*"

My old friend Toddy, for all of his clever antics, was clearly under the influence of 'Ate,' the Greek goddess of mischief, as Shakespeare intimated that the ghost of Julius Caesar was accompanied by, seeking his revenge on his cowardly assassins. If there is such a thing as 'dog heaven,' and, in the case that it is collocated with human heaven, I would wager that Toddy must now be in the company of such characters as Harry Houdini, Attila the Hun, Charlie Chaplin, Crazy Horse, Geronimo, Moe Howard, Nero, the Marquis de Sade, Meriwether Lewis, Sun Tzu, and undoubtedly some members of the Flying Wallenda Family. I'm sure they heard that he was coming, and lined up to get an autograph or have a selfie taken.