# "Tricky Business" by Walter Hart

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 08 - August
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nXHAAFQW9Xvd373KfrkdoSey5y4coSpsUoIjm4z_97g/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**Tricky Business by Walter Hart**

I am incarcerated In a very large prison… It has 7 yards, A through G, minimum and maximum level. I am a barber, or shall I say the “Black” barber. Yes, it’s 2019 but segregation, in a miniscule way is still alive and kicking… there are 1000 men in this yard and 4 barbers. A black one, a white one, a mexican one, and an “other,” so that every prisoners grooming needs are accommodated. So you can imagine my uncomfort when an officer, my building officer, my “Boss” approached me one day while I was cutting hair. I had approximately four men waiting for haircuts and of course all of them were black. The officer pulled me to the side and talked so low that it was close to a whisper, “I got an inmate coming over from the clinic. He’s moving into this building, cell 110… two inmates decided to jump on him today… black eye, busted up… these were two young white inmates, the man is white, an old man… 74 years old… he was living in 5 block and supposedly wouldn't take a shower. So they took it upon themselves to jump on him and then toss him in the shower fully clothed… we have put both of them in the hole for aggravated battery, sent him to medical, and how he’s on the way to this building, and I’m gonna let you know right now, that nobody better not lay a hand on him!”

Thoughts began tumbling through my mind like tumbleweeds… thoughts like, why didn't he ask the white barber? Why was he telling me this? Prison is a seperatist affair sad to say and it’s an unwritten, “Take care of your own” rule that we all abide by. The officer continued, “Everybody respects you, you know the run of this place, nobody would dare cross you… so I am bringing this to you. I need you to cut his hair, clean him up for me” It was more of an order than a request, but the picture became very clear. I asked, “Does he have soap? Clothes? Property?”

“I’ll get him fresh clothes and they are bringing his property over as we speak, I can see the look on your face Mr. Hart, but I need it done!” I nodded understanding to him, he walked off and I finished cutting the guys hair, who sat In the chair, I informed the other 4 fellas that shop was closed for about an hour, I had to do something for the officer.

One of the guys spoke up. “I overheard some of what was said, and you mean to tell me that you are cutting a white dude’s hair with the black clippers?” I rolled the clippers around In my hand. “These ain’t black clippers or white clippers and if you got a problem with it, find somebody else to cut your hair, cause I already let the officer know that I would do it, so that’s what I’m gonna do!”

He got up and walked away but the others stayed In their seats, probably more out of curiosity than anything else, either that or they realized that an hour of prison time was actually not that long and they didn’t have anything better to do. So one of them grabbed the T.V. remote and turned on a soap opera. “The Young and the Restless.” Created for bored housewives, but watched by bored prisoners too. I cleaned my barber tools and swept the area and then in walked Gary, an old, wrinkled, thin white man with clear green eyes, long hair and a scraggly beard. His hair and clothes were damp remnants of being thrown In the shower earlier. His left eye was swollen shut. Kinda purplish… his bottom lip was split… he walked to where the officer called him to, he had a slight limp… his steps were very uncertain as if he were walking on a tightrope… the officer pointed over at me, “Go on over there old timer, Mr. Hart is gonna clean you up!” He came over to our area, the black area, I pointed at my barber chair, “Have a seat young man, let me see what I can do for you.” My words brought a smile to his face, but as he sat down I could smell him… a wild animal smell… he needed a bath. I looked him In the eye and introduced myself then asked him what happened. He explained that some guys told him to take a shower, that he was stinking up the place and when he told them he had no soap or shower shoes or deodorant, one guy socked him in the eye knocking him to the ground and continued hitting him as he lay on the ground… another guy joined in the beating, they dragged him to the shower and put the water on. They got a kick out of that, but an eagle-eyed tower officer witnessed the beating, activated his alarm and a small posse of officers came in, handcuffed the suspects and pulled him from the shower floor…

The smell was taking its toll so I excused myself and went to my cell and retrieved a fresh towel, a pair of my celly’s boxers which I knew the man could fit, a bar of Irish Spring soap, a pair of shower shoes, a brand new speed stick deodorant, a bottle of shampoo I had been using, 5 top ramen soups, a pouch of tuna, a toothbrush, a tube of close up toothpaste, put it all In a plastic bag and brought it down to the barber area, I pointed at the shower, “Go and get you a shower, everything in the bag is yours, we will find you some clothes by the time you are finished showering, and wash your hair too, brush your teeth… you will not get attacked In this building, nobody will lay a finger on you.”

The old man stared at me with those ice green eyes. Trying to find reasoning behind me being nice to him. I stared right back at him. Then saw somebody heading to the vacant shower with their shower bag In their hand. I called them by name and stopped them in their tracks. “Hold up on that shower, I got Gary going In there… you can go after him.” The guy nodded his head in understanding and headed to the domino table which was in full swing.

Gary went and took his shower, and while he did, other inmates in the building of all races began approaching me, asking me what was going on with the old, beat up white guy… I explained as best I could… an officer pushed a cart into the building that contained Gary’s personal property. I noticed a 13’ flatscreen T.V. and a fan right away, but other than that I observed no personal clothing that we are allowed to purchase such as grey T-shirts, shorts, sweat pants, sweat shirts, thermals, (white also allowed) Nor did I see any personal sneakers… also, no commissary items such as hygiene products or food whatsoever!

Someone pointed at a card table where the ramen noodles and pouch of tuna I had donated to the cause sat and asked, “What's up with that?” I explained that Gary appeared to be down on his luck so I gave him a few things I had. I also explained that he needed clean clothes once he got out of the shower, because even though I had said he would get some, often-times people's intentions don't add up to their actions, and the clothes would probably arrive late. If they arrived at all…

Then a strange thing happened… Gary came out of the shower placed the other items and given him on the table along with the ramen and tuna. He sat down in my chair and as I began to cut his hair, somebody walked up and dropped a few more ramen on the table, another guy brought a bag of chips, someone else a bag of coffee.. Then came some clothes, more soap, a bottle of lotion… from guys doing time, guys who had never met this man in their lives… I mentioned a motto earlier that “we take care of our own” and that Is usually along racial lines but not on this day. I continued to cut Gary’s hair, tears streamed down his face as more people added this or that to the table. It was now full. A young white dude came over with a pair of Nike sneakers In his hand. They were used but clean. “Try these on old timer, they should fit, and if so throw those old boots away” The shoes fit, the boots went in the trash. I shaved his scraggly beard off last. He looked like a new man… the officer stepped out of his office, and took a full 2 minutes to absorb the scene and what was happening… he didn’t have to worry about anybody laying a hand on Gary, we had adopted him, he was one of us now. The officer made eye contact with me and nodded. He mouthed “I owe you one” Gary ended up being a great asset to the building, he was an artist and drew top of the line greeting cards, birthdays, christmas, mother’s day, easter, anniversaries, St. Valentine's day, thinking of you, it didn't matter, beautiful cards, one of a kind… people have a way of giving prisoners all kinda different names and titles, but I’d like to add one more to that list… “human”...