# "Tuned In" by Dan Perkins

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 02 - February
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TuLKGfFArDUc1fkFfxUyCu9iXzaV_J0yK58D7S3QOkY/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**Tuned In By Dan Perkins**

I started noticing “things” happening - (synchronicities), after mid-1984. Sometime in mid-1984, I was getting interested in astronomy; particularly local astronomy - our solar system. I was pondering the motions and velocities, and working out illustrations to help me visualize the orbital dynamics of the sun and the planets, moons, and asteroids. I had a vacuum-formed, plastic relief map of California on the wall, over my bed. Next to the map, I had a poster, about the same size as the map, of Northern California, made from a photograph taken from a space shuttle, as it passed over Nor. Cal. I used to kneel on my bed, often for half an hour or more, vicariously exploring Northern California. I’d see something on the map, and see if I could find it on the poster, or I’d find something on the poster picture and see if my map had a name for it. ONe time, as I was gazing/scanning the poster, I “saw something happening” - just for an instant. My eyes widened, I caught my breath, and I felt a wave of gooseflesh wash over me. I was spellbound in rapt attention! Just for an instant, I thought I saw life happening in the picture. What I thought I saw, looked to me like the dark green-looking vegetation in the picture appearing to be boiling, churning...teeming, with life! This happened several times, during later gazing sessions. Each time, I would give a little swoon in reverent awe of the life I was witnessing. Silently, expressions like “Mother!”, or “She’s alive!” would cross my mind, and I felt something I can only call love. I wanted to embrace her.

Then one Saturday afternoon, I was sitting on a wooden chair beside my bed (a waterbed), with my feet up, resting on the bed. I was resting with my back against the back of the chair, and my hands on my lap - gazing across at the poster on the wall, and after a minute,...I seemed to be part of the scene in the poster, up high in the atmosphere...there was no discomfort. I seemed to be disembodied. I could hear the soughing of the atmosphere, and I was looking back at…California/the Earth, maybe like a baby looking back at his mama holding him above her at arm’s length. THen a voice spoke to me. It was the voice of a mature woman. She spoke five 3-word phrases, with a short pause between them. She said “This is mother...She is alive...a living being...Mother is ailing...She needs friends…” Then, I guess I must’ve felt uneasy, maybe a little alarmed, because in an instant three things happened. There was a blur, and I heard her voice urgently cry something but I didn’t catch it, and my body jerked violently. And there I sat, regaining my composure, a little disoriented, tingling all over with high gooseflesh, and wondering “What was that?!” I glanced at the poster again and wondered. Then I found something else to do. But what an experience! I couldn’t keep it out of my mind!

About a week and a half later, I was at my desk with my lap board on my lap, working up some more illustrations, and something started agitating my thoughts. Finally, I gave into it. It was some words, vying for my attention. I wrote with my pen, on the board itself - “Earth, earth, earthearthearthearth hearth, hearth, hearthearthhearthearth, earthearth, earth hearth, earth heart, heartheartheart, earth heart,...Earth heart… Eartheart!! Eartheart!! That’s what she cried out to me when I “zapped back!” And she dithered me a little bit to give me that! Since then, I have occasionally wished I could find a certain kind of feather, or a dead bird, so I could take its wings to make feather fans. Later, I’d be walking or hiking somewhere, and find just what I wished for. Or I’d be out on a hike, and sometimes a picture of a tick, on me somewhere (my hat brim, rolled up shirt sleeve, shirt collar) would flash in my mind, and I’d stop and look there, and sure enough there was a tick, right there. I could write about more of these synchronicities, but I’m at the limit now.

Tuned in, hush.