# "Tuned In" by James Bauhaus

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 02 - February
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HqgwHv3JuV4OuVutBiAlZbZWLqc15ol8151sHPNJrVM/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Tuned In…”** **by J Bauhaus**

It seems that television is custom-made for ineffectiveness with regard to debates. By this, I mean that politicians, party-bosses, lawyers, even cops, and every other special interest can get on, sell their product and laugh at anyone who attempts to make them answer an honest question with a fact or truth. Probably the worst thing about televised “debates'' is that they are one-way discourses. When they go south into ca-ca-ville, as they often do, no amount of bellowing at the TV will suffice to drag any of the debaters back on track. Also, you can't even tell for sure if the inquiry is real: the whole presentation can be fake theater, written, produced, and directed by Big Tobacco, or the Pentagon Department of searing out more weapons and billions of dollars. Both have happened before. The entire Cold War Era was brought to you by the U.S. military chasing scared politicians around with outrageous horror stories. No rational person bought the idea that the richest, most privileged and pampered people on Earth would really choose to destroy everything they had to govern a radioactive cinder. But this exact same nonsense was sold to us by Big Media and the Yellow Dog Press every day for decades. They sold this lie to us for so long that many school children believed it even after becoming adults. The stupidest, most insane nonsense can be sold if your targets are young enough, mal-educated enough, or trained to be simple-minded.

After you’ve decided not to turn the shit off because it doesn’t yet seem too fake, there is still the problem of the reporter pissing his pants to squeeze in the maximum number of commercials for his editor. With a goddamned commercial interrupting every two minutes, who can make a point or show his opponent to be the fool he is? A further consideration is that, on TV, even the most complex problem gets less than five minutes for exploration before the reporter concludes the debate with her stock phrase, “We’ll have to leave it there” while we learn how we can make our teeth, clothes, or shoes brighter. Then, when “we” come back, a new panel of expert, chattering monkeys is already assembled to focus on the trivia of racism and bigotry instead of the fact that we really do not want to import all the illiterates, cripples, and criminals being chased out of their backward countries or trying to escape into our welfare paradise. Where did we get so many gullible bleeding hearts who can’t understand that there is a limit to how many stray dogs and cats that our hard work can support before the strain breaks our country too! When we take in all the problem children of broken, corrupt, and incompetent governments, we help the politicians who make up those shitty governments stay in power and exploit and abuse their remaining citizens more. Only a few seconds of actual thought makes it flagrantly obvious that it is better to replace the few shitty politicians who are causing the problem than to absorb the endless hordes of victims that they create. It’s not a refugee problem, it’s a hitty politician problem. Those victims are. Historically, supposed to stay and be the ones who overthrow the government. Our own government did this all over Central and South America during the previous century for our merchants to merely steal their fruit and sugar cane plantations. A few years later, our politicians' excuses for overthrowing legitimate, elected governments and installing their own puppet governments were the supposed threat of communism. So: why did our politicians suddenly decide to stop using victimized people as fifth-columnists against their own countries and instead take them in as refugees? Because democrats realized that poor, disenfranchised, skill-less, near illiterates vote democratic, and because republicans realized that these people could be revictimized through use as cheap labor to sabotage wage-growth in our own country. Most republicans are merchants whose biggest cost is labor. Cheap labor maximizes their profits.

Another of the things that prevents us from seeing obvious facts besides the ineffectiveness of TV as a public forum, the time limits, interruptions, and commercials is the debating skills of the participants. The best example of this is a snide, grinning, interrupting, loud-talking, slogan-repeating jackass who appears on CNN debate panels frequently. He used to be a senator from somewhere. He embodies the worst of the worst in a debate because his braying of his own agenda is so loud, obnoxious, and intolerable that it prevents his more polite opponent from making his point. Try and catch Jack Kingston on a CNN debate and study his methods. Career politicians use every trick listed above to pound their beliefs into people’s heads, preventing counter-ideas from being heard, and to run out the clock with their braying until the debate is over. Talking to people like Kingston and politicians like him in a competitive setting is like getting run over by a bulldozer. And, if you over shout these bellowing bullies, trying to make your point, suddenly you’re the bad guy for not having an overbearing penetratingly loud voice to begin with, and for startling everyone by transforming from meek politeness mode to “see here! I will be heard!” mode.

So, what can TV-debate practitioners do to increase the effectiveness of their medium? It takes new rules. And, it takes small changes in the format. We must realize that participants are given lists of proposed, likely questions which they use to formulate perfect answers. They practice and rehearse their responses, making up their lists of “talking points,” which include repeating points, shouting points, non-sequitur points, distracting points, and even derailing points. The viewer, however, gets none of these aids. Instead, we get to mostly guess who the hell is talking and to and try to figure out, by what he is saying, who he works for and who he represents. If we see the introduction of these “experts,” it often turns out that they hide behind trickly-named organizations, such as “Americans for Freedom and Beer.” These really are, say, a group of oil, gas, mining, logging, and hunting profiteers, who are trying to frack-up the national parks, sell all the trees to Japan, and fill their mansions full of dead animal heads. Viewers shouldn’t be fooled. They should be informed. These people who are paid to sell their views need to wear labels that tell us who they work for, the same way NASCAR labels tell us who pays the hotrods. Hotrods of Politics *especially* need these labels. On a crawl beneath them should be listed the people and organizations who pay them, and they need, on their foreheads, a big “R” or “D” so that there is no confusion as to their agenda.

As important as tagging these people is, it is not enough. They need back-up speakers, too, for when they get off-track, begin interrupting their opponent too frequently, or run out of ideas and simply begin repeating themselves, trying to derail the debate and run the clock. When this happens, the TV debate practitioner exacts a penalty. Too much bellowing gets the volume of your mic turned down. Too many interruptions gets your mic shut off and your back-up speaker gets the next question to answer. Obvious attempts to go south, sideways, distract, and derail gets you a split screen and no sound while your opponent gets extra time. Telling lies or disparaging your opponent gets you the worst sanction of all. The debate practitioner puts a commercial box over the top of the offender’s face, selling soap, pizza, or even condoms. Since the TV people get their commercial now, this can extend the debate.

These suggestions may seem more amusing than serious, but they do provide a framework for improving the effectiveness of debates. They make it more entertaining to watch, certainly. These rules would indeed sidetrack and cut out a major portion of the predatory nonsense that infects most TV debates, particularly political bullshit theatre, if all broadcasters adopt them. Politicians want to sell their agendas. So do business groups, unions, political candidates, cops, lawyers, and every other type of expert, consultant, paid talking head, or special interest group. Television is the medium that they prefer to use that allows them to sell their ideas to the most interested viewers at once. This makes their ideas, like advertising, and their television time like commercials. They should pay for our time spent watching this crap by agreeing or submitting to new rules that make it less crap, or at least more entertaining. More entertainment and less crap would lure more of an audience and stop many of us from turning the shit off. More points would get made. These points would be of a higher quality. Everyone would be better off.