# Untitled by Teddy Bartling

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 07 - July
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cYb1LajY82xUskFZEdGUMMLeWQhxSkp7YfgSea_aFRw/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by Teddy Bartling**

It sure is hot out there. And dangerous. Too más for mi niño and beautiful wife. We are finally here-safe- after three tries through that desert, and finally over their wall. It stops no one. It is easier to get from Mexico to America, than it is to get from America to Mexico. They would rather keep us there to persecute us rather than let us go home.

The best ways to get across are tunneling and climbing the wall. The gringos know where the tunnels are and they watch them. The tunnels are actually “people traps” The other was is through or over the fence, but once you’re on the other side, you have to run from the people watching, who are on horseback or in trucks, trying to run you down. After they’ve run you down, they let their dogs have their way with you while they laugh and watch as they wait for the border patrol. This was no place for my young son and beautiful wife.

We spent two weeks in the desert this time. We had little food and water, and I thought we’d die from the heat. Thankfully, Dios was with us, and we are still safe and together. The gringos chased us with guns, and dogs on horseback while Border Patrol drove along the wall in 4-wheel drive. Helicopters patrolled during the day, and dogs and guards with spotlights worked at night. It hurt my heart to see my familia in rags. We were covered in sweat and dust, and mud leaked down or necks. Maybe our filth was a blessing because the dogs had stopped chasing us, and we assumed they lost our scent. My wife’s lips cracked and bled from the heat with every smile and every word. As we ran from the hounds from hell, we lost precious water. We were only sport for the Arizona rednecks with their shiny boots and guns. They were like dogs that kill chickens. The best things to do to these dogs is kill them. They litter the desert with the bones of my people, like we were just chicken. It is an abomination. They don’t even have the decency to bury my people. It is the same everywhere though. We do the jobs they don’t want to, and make them rich and comfortable. We help them grow fat as we whither away, then they fill their jails and prisons with what they don’t use.

Out there, it doesn’t matter if your skin is brown and you are wondering with the scorpions and rattlesnakes. There are the ones crawling and the ones slithering. There are the ones on bare earth, and the ones on horseback or in jeeps and trucks. The only difference is Dios created the animals to be malicious by nature, but these men chose hatred and evil.

They are evil men with evil purposes, but their country is evil and godless. They pretend to be good and God fearing. Their TV pastors preach what they claim is the word of God, but they wear a different designer suit every Sunday, and they all think God has something different to say. How can there be only one God with so many different churches. They flash their million dollar smiles and pass the plates around collecting more and more. I could feed my family for a week with what they spend on their morning coffee. They turn up their noses, they scoff, and they laugh when I hold out my hat for some spare change.

We had to leave that place. What kind of father would I be if i raised my family in an environment of disrespect, evil, and darkness? How could I raise my niño around people who steal from the poor to buy shiny cars, and get expensive surgeries and coffee? I wear my sandals in January so we can afford to buy our niño warm clothes. Their churches and government refuse to help us because we are not one of them, and I thought that all God’s children were created equal. This is the new Gomorrah, and I want no part of it. They blame our people, but their meth, and their drugs are the evil that are killing this country. In some states they practically give you marijuana, but in other states they can give you up to 10 years for a roach and some trumped up charges. I don’t understand how one country can have so many conflicting laws. In Colorado you’re fine to do as you will, but drive a few miles into Oklahoma you would end up in prison. A country that claims to be so free has the highest prison population in the world. Most of the people in prison are there for little to no reason. They’re mostly the poor. I’m poor, and my son probably will be too, so we must leave. There are so many snakes and scorpions that would probably kill him before he even made it to prison.

This country is filled with hate. They don’t want us there, but when we get there, we are stuck. This entire country feels like a prison. It has walls, gangs, and we are persecuted and oppressed on the daily. My family has almost been killed in gang violence three times. America is a country that would ruin my family's honor, and teach them vanity and laziness. Money is the God of America.

After two weeks in the desert running and hiding from these snakes, we decided that Mexico was the best place for us. I returned to Mexico and took a day on a hammock with my wife and niño snuggled up together. We have food and water, and we have each other. That is all we need. To see the contentment and happiness in my family’s eyes on this hammock is the greatest happiness a man can have. In America they have shiny cars, and nice clothes, but here we have this. Each other.