# Untitled by John Naylor

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 02 - February
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/19x9aYJr8X-UrX8iBkbi_Jv5jQXmzLCOpI5bJ6KFSPIk/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by John Naylor**

“How many should I take?” the ex-con asked at a party. I reckon I gave him an accurate judgement of dose, give or take: he should reach a Level 3 trip. I wouldn’t want to weird him out, at least not while I’m babysitting him. After all bad trips were God’s punishments for greed and bad vibes while ingesting. I kept telling him set and setting. There was nothing to smoke but cigarettes, and the trip wouldn’t come on so we decided to go to the liquor store. He strolled in with large pupils like I owned the place, like a big ol’ pimp. I hung back because I was underage. The ex-con Spivey made his purchases in his odd Spivey way. We had a couple drinks, though we had to go somewhere to down this alcohol. There’s enough booze for all. We turn as Spivey says to look. Like a scene from a horror movie, they were everywhere. I wasn’t high enough for it to be a hallucination. Birds everywhere! Huge crows in a big hardwood Indiana tree. I knew Indians would take it as an omen. My high was slowly coming on now: my hands felt stronger and tingled.

Spivey had a friend with a disposable income, so we went to that person. Driving over in that hatchback, the windbreaker felt strange upon my skin, but we arrived and walked in unannounced. We didn’t need to tell him that we were tripping; we could just drink, smoke, and jam out because the kids would stay away from the mancave. The bass guitar thumped with the drums, and Spivey’s smile contorted like the Cheshire cat. The end of that bass bent and contorted like melting plastic. I broke into a cold sweat. The music became an awful, overwhelmingly distorted mess I couldn’t sort out. My heels did their best to stay posted on that bar stool, but my head got light. The bottles kept ringing as they were thrown into the trash can that’s been long too full. I fell to my knees and caught myself with my hands. The music stopped. I tried to concentrate as I took a breath and told the guys I’m straight, though I was as pale as an Irish ghost. A discussion filled with paranoia ensured, and the host prompted Spivey to get me out of there. As his mind filled with each worst case scenario, I was helped up the stairs into the Godless night

Into the backseat I went where I used all my strength and focus to sit upright. Perhaps I shouldn’t have played pro-badass and eaten everyone’s leftover shrooms. It seemed hard at the time, but now I have regrets. I could only imagine being pulled over… then I hear sirens! It was Spivey making siren noises, and in the moment, he seemed worthy of great punishment. I couldn’t do anything but groan like a drunken beast, and “the voice of reason” realized this and explained that it’s not cool to not know what’s going on. When we make it back to the house, I go to the bathroom without shutting the door before I get help into a bed. The candlesticks are melting and the walls are breathing. And at least 5 women have been screwed on this blanket just this week, but that was the least of my worries despite the fact that Spivey called it the “cum burrito.” Still, there was no chance of cops asking questions on this bed of debauchery, and so it would do. “The voice of reason” kept taking pictures of my face, pulling me out of the trip. Meanwhile, the phone wouldn’t stop ringing, and excuses went from a late dinner to watching Sal. Anything but the brutal honesty of my condition. It was near midnight before I dared to leave, but I definitely wasn’t going to drive.

I promised myself to never eat everyone’s shroom scraps again. Let this be a lesson to the youth. When you say set and setting is paramount, it applies to you too, even if you think rising to whatever challenge is hard or if you think they’ll call you a wussie for not eating everything on the table. If you do something careless, make a whole new promise to yourself.