# Untitled by Robert Martin

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1aEFKVx34dHsUGZI2DcnJRGGAd8Ld7Vhdjgj1Gn6Egmw/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**by Robert Martin**

****With just enough weight and time, the noose broke and followed with a soft crunch. The owner stood, gasping for air and dusting himself off. Billy took the road one step at a time, pulling and tugging on the noose. No luck left him with a necklace of past death and a mission to cut the damn thing off. Each footfall became more familiar, and then he heard cards in a near distance, yet none could be seen on the dirt road. Billy assessed the situation without memory of how, who…

The noose dangled limp behind him. Searching for a reminder, Billy pulled out a black and white photo of a young woman staring at him, not the camera. Love at first sight, for the second time. A dull beat pounded Billy’s cold heart: who is this? where is she? I have to cut this damn rope. Questions fell through his tired mind.

Along the road, a house came into view. Billy met an old, blue truck with a man in the engine. He sat under the heat and smoked his cigarette, lost in silence. Billy called to him, “Excuse me, sir? Can you help me? I’m lost and--”

Before Billy could get his point across, the man whipped on him like a snake. “Boy, what in God’s name are you doing on my property?”

“Sorry, sir. I… I just needed some help.”

He flicked his smoke away and stared into the smaller Billy. “Help? Help? Don’t we all need some help? I need help, you need help, this shit world needs help. No job, no money. Ulcers, my wife’s a whore, kids are shit. Truck’s empty and broke. Help, you little son of a bitch. Don’t whine to me. I’ll… I’ll!” The crazed man took toward Billy and sent him running.

What scared Billy the most was the truth which came rushing back. A few scattered memories flooded his now waking mind. Loss of job, loss of money, broken this, broken that. He remembered the man’s words before he said those exact things coming to a slow job. A long jumping noose still hung in tow, and a red house peeked from around the corner. Billy shook off the hurtful words of his last encounter and tried to hang on to some hope. Up ahead in clear view sat a lone woman on the porch. “Excuse me, ma’am. May I trouble you for a little help?” Billy asked softly. The woman lined up her face with Billy, and now he could see the old dried tears and snot on her nose. “I’m sorry, ma’am. Are you OK?”

“OK? OK?” She stared up, rising out of her position. “Do I look OK? My husband lies on that old couch, dead. I’m 40 years old, and I’m not OK. My life is over, and you got some nerve coming up here. Get, or, I’ll… I’ll...”

Billy didn’t wait to see what she would offer. Trailed by a limp noose and no help, he jogged off. The hurt and anger he experienced was too much: why? He was trying to help.

Billy slowed and the floodgates opened. Remembering came easy. Pulling out his black and white photo, he looked into it and saw a movie in his mind. His love at first sight for the second time lay dead on a cold metal table. Billy heard his own voice, “Yes, doctor. That’s her, my wife.” Sorrow swept through him, and tears flowed as he realized he had the same feelings as the crying woman. Shattered dreams formed, and Billy tore the photo to pieces.

Then he stood and sucked up his nose to take a deep breath before marching to the nearest tree with his noose in hand. With eyes dimmed red, a pounding head, and a still heart, Billy took the first few feet of noose and climbed up a tree, holding tight. Once satisfied, he knotted and double knotted what was left then sat on the branch that would hold his life. Biting his lower lip and trembling, he felt anger and alone. Black sweet sleep, not a problem to care. “The good life,” he said aloud to a few birds and whistling leaves. One last breath, and he would go.

“Excuse me mister… Hey, up there.” Billy woke up to a small voice pleading for his attention. A bright head of pigtails said, “Hey mister. I need some help, please.” Billy tried to ignore her and go back to his sedated self. “ Please, sir. I’m lost. Can you please help me?”

Billy could no longer ignore the voice. “Dammit, what do you want?” he yelled.

“Please, I can’t find the big white house. Can’t you help me? I’m scared.”

Billy held her eyes, and with a grunt, he began pulling at the knots. Slowly, they gave, and he crawled down the scratch tree. “OK, little girl. Where is the house? Let’s hurry because I have things to do,” Billy grumbled.

“I thought it was over here. Please, can’t you help me?” She began to tear.

This broke Billy in a new way for in these last 10 minutes, he felt a new feeling to want to stop this girl’s crying and get her to this white house. “Oh come, now. Don’t cry. We’ll find it.” With that, she cheered up. Billy walked her hand-in-hand down the road, and finally, after many glances, she had to know. “What’s that around your neck? A jump rope?”

Billy didn’t have the heart to tell her the truth. “Yes, just a jump rope… Oh! Look ahead, a white house!” The two sped to the house, and the girl smiled for joy; Billy didn’t know why he was smiling. “What is this place?” Billy asked aloud as the girl jumped into a man’s burly arms.

“Hey friend. We’ve been looking everywhere for you,” the man said to Billy who never saw the man before. “Here, let me help you with that.” The man slipped the old noose clean and tossed it down. “Yes, a much better look.”

“How? What?” Billy shook his head, trying to collect the words… The man slung a large arm over Billy’s shoulders.”

“Buddy, I’ve been looking for you, everywhere. Glad my daughter found you. Now, come inside--I want you to meet a few people.” Though he was confused (who? me? friend? daughter?), pushing gently to the massive white house full of smiling faces didn’t feel wrong. “I can stop looking for you. Come on inside, it’s a great day. Everything’s gonna be alright.”

Billy finally found the words. “It’s the House of the Lord, and you’re our main guest. Come on in…” Right then, the memories fell harder in all the right places. He remembered the anger, the pain, hurt, but a stronger new feeling took over. The familiar man’s face came into the picture. The embracing arm and smiling people, the white house and slowly the memory of the noose faded. The mean man didn’t seem so mean, the hurt woman not so hurt. Billy took a few handshakes and made his way to the front pews. The Holy Spirit filled him, and his smiling wife was no longer a ripped picture but an angel looking down. His lost job meant an opportunity for a new one, and Billy sang for the first time since that noose snapped. Billy smiled with tears of joy.