# "When Life Gives….Make…" by James Bauhaus

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OfQC0-7JL_7b_Bs1CtOEWPhpxIPZQEm1JUQEVgcJ3hw/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

When Life Gives….,Make…

I grew up in a large family, but I never saw so much idiotic anarchy or such volumes of unecessary noise until the scoundrels of law put me in one of their thousnds of prisons in place of the actual culprit. Now I see, every day grown “men” with the minds of ten-year-olds. They pound little pieces of plastic into hard steel and scream, “twenty points, sucka!” as if they have really accomplished something. Right now, I’ve got a genius 12-year old in my cage who proudly chirps “I’m bipolar and I got ADD!” He is singularly focused on filling the cage with soot from burning plastic so he can get a Mexican to put permanent graffiti on his chest. His biggest accomplishment seems to have been a forklift operator for a few days, making $10/hr, before being caught for smoking dope in the restroom. He brags to me that he ran away from school when he discovered that he could make more money selling dope than his teacher made teaching. The third time he told me this nonsense, I pointed out that his teacher was still making $28,000/year while he was not making $8/month for the next twenty years. He lost part of his ADD when I did this math for him. Now he stops and thinks a bit more carefully about his brags before he tries to butter me up so he can watch cheap, Japanese cartoons on my TV (these cartoons make his supposed ADD disappear completely).

The other children in this man-daycare don’t exactly chase each other in circles with sticks while shrieking joyfully, but they have their equivalent. When not mesmerized by ball-chasers on the communal TVs and bellowing encouragements, they slide slyly from cage to cage, window shopping for moochables such as sugar, caffeine, nicotine, THC, ice or anything of value with which to trade for the same.

Given this type of self-absorbed regression-obsessed, mal-educated material to work with, I simply bought their signatures for a soup. I type up what I want, have the children sign it, send it out, then read the results. They bring the replies to me for another soup. I continue the cycle. When cops do this to unwitting citizens, they call it their “force multiplying effect”. Businesses do this, and when they get caught at it, they have their media helpers call it “lobbying”. It has always been much more cost effective to simply buy politicians than to pay taxes. For decades, I’ve tried to educate these deliberately dumbed-down, exploited man-children by demonstrating the fact that they can be more than mere cash-cows for the too-privileged elite and hereditary rich. My success at this has been scant. These poor, stupid people were taught to be ridden like farm animals, then eaten, by society’s most cunning, insidous parasites. They are so well-trained in servicing their betters that they can not even conceive that they are doing exactly as they were programmed to do when they burgle, steal and vandalize while everyone else works. Freeloading is their daily life, and scarely 10% of them ever get wherewithal to climb out of their pits. So, like everyone else with an education, I have finally realized that trying to help them is a waste of my time. Now, when they come to me in a steady steam with their freeloading palms out, they don’t even have to concoct and speed-tell me a new story about another fake-family emergency. They sign the paper; I give them a crumb to stuff down their pants and scurry, mouselike, back to their cage to hide and eat. When life gives you cunning little crumbsnatchers who are content to live in their own filth, you let them. But you make them pay for the privilege of deciding to be an anvil around society’s neck.