# "When the Laughter’s Over" by Bobby Bunderson

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 12 - December
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GZw8-kQisxk0NQ4pvipkkWw7glpzhmcpSu2ULKM0zWE/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2015

**"When the Laughter’s Over" by Bobby Bunderson**

A practical joke is a prank intended to embarrass someone or cause physical discomfort. Practical jokes are something of an enigma. Humor me (pun intended) while I break this term down into separate components. *Practical*: adj, of, relating to, or shown in practice. *Jokes:* verb, something said or done to provoke laughter; a prank, a playful or mildly mischievous act. So, we can surmise from these definitions that practical jokes could be defined as to practice or carry out a playful prank for a laugh. However, because I see things in a more sinister light. I just believe it is wrong to get my kicks at someone else’s expense.

Growing up I, like many folks, used laughter to mask pain. I was that annoying, little prankster that people navigated around very cautiously, lest they ‘get-got’. However, slowly, almost imperceptibly, my good natured amusement turned increasingly mischievous to the point of cruelty. Sad part? I still laughed…

I used to cruise the novelty store searching for a new gag: fake barf, rubber dog doody, a hand buzzer, fake ice cubes with insects, cans of snakes, and of course the always popular whoopie cushion. Ah, good times! When these low budget gadgets lost their zest, it was time to up the ante, you know, turn it up a notch. I busied myself learning all types of new tricks: tacks on chairs, replacing sugar with salt, adding tabasco to ketchup, opening a package of himberg cheese and hiding it behind the cereal boxes at the grocery store. Stop it, I’m killing myself here. How about the old timeless saran wrap over the toilet bowl? Rubbing pencil lead on a quarter’s edge and then betting some poor shmuck that they couldn’t roll it down the center of their face without the coin leaving their skin!

I grew older, and my practical jokes grew increasingly sophisticated. I used to bring a roll of toilet paper with me to parties. No, not to “t.p.” someone’s house, how petty, ha ha! No, I would find myself a suitable mark, and bet him/her that they could not repeat my demonstrated feat. I placed the roll of toilet paper in my pants so that the cardboard center ran vertical with my body. Next, I leaned my head backward, placed a quarter on my head and then attempted to straighten my head allowing the quarter to fall forward and into the roll of toilet paper. I became very good at making it on my first try. I gave my marks three attempts, but little did they know that they would only need one! As soon as they tilted their head back, I would pour a cup of beer down their pants, creating a wet-spot as if they’d had a little accident. What a hoot! Practical jokes had become like a new drug to my already sizeable repertoire. I simply couldn’t get enough, and I needed bigger doses to satiate my cravings. Then I discovered a deliciously naughty practical joke: the fine art of spook ‘em! My ultimate joy had become scaring the bejesus outta people. Sadly, I still inwardly laugh when I see these types of gags on certain television programs.

Pranking becomes tiresome to victims quickly, yet I remained steadfast and unrelenting. My first wife Patti had paid dearly for my newest cruel addiction. What had started off as harmless merriment, soon turned into a constant stream of irresponsible and unsavory chicanery. I had become a Class A obnoxious jerk. One night my wife had announced that she wanted to go visit a neighbor and that she would be gone for no longer that half an hour. Ten minutes after she left I followed her. I crouched behind a stand of bushes like a predator waiting for my unsuspecting prey to happen along. I watched as she walked down the sidewalk toward me, laughter bubbling up from my gut. Just as she passed, I grabbed her from behind, placing my hand over her mouth. I thought this was going to be my pièce de resistance, it was not. Her response scared me! She went stiff, then limp as if she’d fainted. I had frightened her to the core. I instantly realized my faux pas. Until this moment, I’d never stopped long enough to consider the consequences of my cruel sense of humor.

Patti later told me (much later since she didn’t speak to me for a week after that), the first thing that went through her mind was that she was going to be raped and killed, and she was worried about leaving me and our one year old daughter alone. I was dumbfounded. How could she ever forgive me? Well, I’m not sure that she ever has… We were divorced three years later. The joke was on me, and the laughter was over…