# "Woman in Black" by Brian Lowe

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 11 - November
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1alQVlD4mBsSGlQlthWXqWz7JUEpfK2AkELk3R6fieBc/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2015

**"Woman in Black" by Brian Lowe**

O’ Allah, most magnificent, most merciful, creator of worlds, please aid this man and others like him as well as those of us who care for them. What sin has he done to bring about your wrath in this form on him? Or is it the work of the great devil and if so, why do you allow it to happen? And, why will our leaders, “faithful” men all, not allow us access to medical care and preventive care like vaccines that would have prevented this in the first place or at least had treatment so that it would not have progressed so far in the first place and his life, his quality of life, would have been so much better?

All because the imams fear the influence of the west when all they truly fear is any threat against their tyrannical power. Preying on ignorance and superstition, hyping the young men upon falsified history and religious nonsense, they then use them to terrorize the rest of the population. And part of that program is to demonize anything foreign, different, or outside their experience and especially anything “western.” Even including sanitary practices, human rights, medicine, and medical technology and especially communication technology, and even worse let it have any connection, no matter how tenuous to a Christian or Jew and it becomes even more forbidden. Yet Islamic scientists, doctors, and engineers could be working on and solving their own problems if the religious leaders and rulers would allow it. Which goes back to they will not surrender any amount of power, prestige, wealth or influence to anyone not already in control. And they will not let people be freely educated because then the people will see reason and will want the rights and privileges previously denied to them. Basic rights that any and all human beings, regardless of race or ethnicity should have, no if, and, or buts. Yet they keep their people at the basest and crudest levels with careful control of education, religion, culture and social manipulation. Then their peoples’ still feel needs that are not met so these needs and the desire for them are then channeled into negative activities that promote their control and arouses fear into those who do not fall for their propaganda.

Especially one of their most common tactics; projection of all their country’s and people’s problems on another foreign country, usually the U.S. or someone they perceive as aiding or receiving aid from them. This is usually directed towards countries that have a free and educated population that have the ability to think for themselves. Add to this that the religious leaders and rulers that use religion mix this with their religious beliefs to show themselves as good and right while the target group being evil and wrong so that they are cause for all their woe you get exactly what we have now in the Islamic world. Terrorism through controlled terror campaigns are used to cow their own populations, any that fight back in any way are assassinated or have religious decrees issued against them which usually leads to attacks and death and now with social media and the internet, it has only gotten worse. Terror only works on those who can see it and now / experience it and showing it on the web allows it to reach all over the world and inspire more idiots to copy those tactics. This creates an endless, self-perpetuating cycle of violence, fueled by ignorance and power hungry opportunists.

The best way we (the world and humanity in general) have to fight this is to educate these people, obtain for them basic human rights (especially women), and over time with more and more reached, it will begin to have an effect upon their government and religious institutions. The more educated, the more freedom and tolerance and open-mindedness. These individuals will be a small percentage of the population at first but as long as they are protected they will spread and multiply exponentially. They will raise their children this way, teach their friends, be examples to their neighbors and communities.

Only then will the needlessly done cruelties be on the way to eradication.