# "Women In Water" by Brian Lowe

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q-_hCk75ECK-uPjH6Zqr-po0NoouAv398cIcPoUtY4E/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2015

**"Women In Water" by Brian Lowe**

All the men are gone. Forced into one army or another. The rest killed. All the women beaten and raped from the old to the young. These were horrible times in Cambodia. Why must the Chinese attempt to conquer us? Why must the French and the Americans battle them in our fields? What gives them the right to kill us in our own country--why don’t they fight each other in their own countries? Why don’t they fight somewhere else and leave us alone?

I am the little boy in this picture. My grandma is the older woman with the little girl behind her (my big sister) and my mom is in the back holding me. We are taking cover from gunfire and mortars. I was mostly used to it, being born in these times, but my sister is really freaked out. Not long after this, grandma got sick and died. The bad thing, or rather the good thing--depending on how you look at it, is that I don’t remember any of this.

After grandmother passed on, we fled to the south where we lived in refugee settlements. Many of our people died during these times. Eventually we fled across the border and were allowed to emigrate to the U.S. If we would have stayed behind we would have been killed. Only a pitifully small number of our people survived and are now scattered throughout the U.S.

I found this picture in my mother’s belongings after she passed away. My sister and I were going through what she had left behind and found it among several other items saved from our homeland: this photograph, a small clay Buddha and rosary, and a scroll of bamboo slats rolled up tight. It was in a language neither my sister nor I could read. We barely knew a few words of our birth tongue. We are only fluent in English, our new country’s language.

I wanted to learn more about my ethnic heritage, so I began talking to the older members of the community. I am learning about what our lives were like before. I am even learning to speak and read my own language. The scroll is in a Tibetan script, so I am learning to read that as well.

I grew up empty of culture and religion. I am learning them now. I am doing this for the future of our people and particularly my children. Maybe even some day we can go back, although considering that they killed all of our people who stayed behind, we probably won’t. We have a good life and freedom here; no one is trying to kill us because of our religion or ethnicity. We are happy here. Yes, I do believe we will stay.

Even so, it would be nice to visit our ancestral farm to work the soil and smell the scents of the land. How can I be so homesick when I do not even remember anything at all about my homeland from personal experience--just secondhand knowledge? My sister and mother knew. Mother would never talk about it and my sister only remembers the soldiers and guns. To this day she freezes up and shakes with terror when she hears someone speaking in Chinese. She won’t speak of it to me, but I think it has something to do with when the soldiers took her and mother. Those were bad days.

We don’t have to worry about starving or clean water. We don’t have to worry about them killing us or worse. We are safe and protected here. Yet is it not the human condition to want what one cannot have?

A homeland, freedom to live in the place of our ancestors without fear. It is good that we came to the U.S., for here we have learned the meaning of freedom. It is bad that we came because we left our people behind to die, and now we are all that remain. Should we have stayed and died with the rest? Or are we doing the right thing by trying to piece back together our culture? Perhaps it would be best if we just started over--would that be a better choice? Whatever I choose, what if I am wrong? What if I make the wrong choice and deprive my children of the life they deserve?

Even so, whatever I choose, I will do my best to the extent of my ability to teach my children where they come from and that they can choose to live however they want. At least they have that choice.