# "Zoo" by R. Scherrer

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 07 - July
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rk2kpJM4eEhI2slKvDnpAOzrMvvVkUc3AJ6B16vXUt0/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Zoo by R. Scherrer**

I have had many memorable moments at the Los Angeles zoo. I used to go with my mother a few times a year when I was a youngster, which was many, many moons ago. I don’t think I have been at the zoo since maybe the 80s. I love it; I very much looked forward to it. At one of the concession stands they sold these little wax figures, you paid 3 cents or something like that and the machine would pick the mold and fill it with wax. It made the figurine right in front of you. I always got one of the little wax figures out of the machine, sometimes it was a rhino, sometimes it was a lion, the animals varied.

My mom would take us to all the new exhibits; we would go to the reptile exhibit and go see the birds. It was always fun to see all the different types of animals. I especially loved to go see the polar bears; they always seemed so content in their big old swimming pools.

Now I live in a zoo, it doesn’t seem so fun to me. I feel for those poor animals now. Sure, I picked up a lot of knowledge along the way. But now, I know how it feels to be watched and analyzed. Sure I am in a prison for breaking the laws of society. I just tend to believe that it is wrong for us as a species, (a superior animal) , so some believe to lock up any other animal for the sake of our own entertainment.

Some people say that they don’t know any different. Does that make it right? I myself don’t think so. We as a more intelligent animal should have the common decency to know that that is not the way that we should treat our fellow animals. See, I made my choice and that was to break the law and keep breaking the law. The animals that are born to be the subject of our amusement do not have a choice. Although I loved it as a child I have grown to have mixed feeling on the zoo, on the one hand it can teach children about animals and give them a slight glimpse into the world of them; or as much of a glimpse you can get of an animal in their natural habitat, or in their natural caged environment. This is not their natural environment. Kids nowadays only care about their phones and video games. But, hey what do I know; I decided to live the rest of my life in a zoo.