# "Zoo" by Michael Reese

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 07 - July
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eDeqJrsZMEWgkkgNppjDVD9_tjG9Xw1qXKNSOcWBMDM/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Zoo by Michael John Reese**

As I look back I try to think of my experiences with zoo’s. I first remember a school trip to the zoo at about seven years old with Robert E. Lee Middle School in Richmond Virginia. How exciting it all was! I remember feeding a giraffe and it’s long blue tongue, the night creatures exhibit. Giant bats, bugs, spiders. But then my mind begins to make new accusations. Comparisons between jails, prisons, and inmates. How both the zoo animals and inmates are removed by force from their natural habitats. How both are confined to small unhealthy artificial habitats. How “people” “see” both zoo animals and inmates both from far away through glass and bars (for safety's sake) how most people never understand that the small piece of the life they observe is not an accurate portrayal of the real day to day life either of animals or inmates. I think how inmates are thought of as “animals”. I think of how after a few short years in captivity most zoo animals and inmates alike are no longer able to survive in the “wild” on their own anymore. At least not without a lot of help and training. I think how the people are given the false impression that they know how the animals and inmates really live, think, act, who and what they really are. Based on just a few moments of visiting. I think of the common ways in which both suffer from confinement, developing mental health problems, narices. From being fined and denied a healthy natural outlet. How both have a, on average, reduced life span and or quality of life. How both are “Humanly” punished or “put down” when they react negatively to a world they do not understand or relate to. I think how both the zoos and it’s support structure and the “justice” system and its support structure both gain millions of dollars for themselves from both government and private sources. How no matter how much “they” say that they have the best interests at heart of society and animals and inmates alike. They undeniable have a vested interest in perpetuating the existing system. Even if it's at the expense of the oes they are interested to keep and care for much less the society at large. How if you as the “keepers” do they think the existing way of things is for the best. Most will “honestly” say yes. Even though of if not all scientific data shows that it is not for the best of anyone but the system itself. I think how there are small underfunded groups fighting for better care of both zoo animals and inmates alike and how almost no one pays much attention to anything those groups say or do. Did you know that many zoo animals have to be medicated to keep them from harming themselves and others for a small example many zoo animals tend to chew out their own fur as a result of stress brought on by their captivity and become antisocial even extremely violent in ways that do not “naturally” do. Many inmates also have to be medicated due to mental health problems caused by their captivity that they did not “naturally” exhibit before. I think how very few know of the confusion, fear, and feelings of loss both kinds of “animals feel. The mournful cries in the dark the confusion from not understanding how they came to be where they are. The pain of losing loved ones, puckmates, herdmate, offspring, etc. I think how access to both zoo animals and inmates is a highly restricted thing for (safety's sake) I think how neither the zoo animals or inmates have any real power over anything that goes on in their daily lives (while in captivity). Yes I see that every aspect of my current situation. Alters for every other aspect of my thinking and life. I see that as a child before my own captivity. I thought zoos were wonderful places. And now I think they should all be abolished in favour of wildlife preserves. And then the truly odd thought occurs to me. Could such a thing be the answer for inmates. I mean look at Australia! Ha! Ha! I joke. Kinda I also wonder will I ever look at a zoo and see wonder again. Am i the only person that sees such a clear comparison between a zoo and prisons and jails?