# "Zoo" by Clinton Kennedy

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 07 - July
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GPveK7Wn8rd40jwjeQj-GmE9XtxfMI41NWNfiShbZTs/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2017

**Zoo by Clinton Kennedy**

I have always loved animals. Animals have always been a major part of my life. I remember growing up my Family had its own Zoo of sorts. My Uncle Kim would raise baby caimans and alligators. My Aunt Lynn raised wild pigs. My Grandmother Reba found a baby born owl that kept getting kicked out of the nest for being a runt, so she adopted him and nursed him to health. His name was “Spanky”. Spanky was large for a Barn Owl. He loved Grandma, as large birds of prey will make deep life-bonds with people from adolescence. My Grandma Reba had died of cancer years later. After she died, Spanky was no longer playful. No more clicking his beak with his wings semi-spread, hopping at people rolling his head, shaking cats and people. Spanky just stopped doing anything, eating included. He died shortly after Grandma. Animals have deep souls that can teach us all very important life-lessons of loyalty, love and patience and make us laugh and bring us joy in life. I as a child and as a teenager, I loved going to Zoos of all sorts. In my hometown of Atascadero, California, is a small Zoo called with Charles Paddock Zoo. I remember going with my Mother and Father there and loving it. Well, except for one time when I was about two years old and small. The reason being, there was a troop of monkeys behind a glass enclosure that I was awed by. The monkey nearest me was picking bugs out of his fur, completely ignoring me. I tried talking to it as it continued to ignore me. So I banged one the glass and yelled at the monkey. The monkey quickly swung its head to face me and screamed at me in a threatening posture, ready to leap at me with a mouth full of huge scary teeth and cannes. I recall screaming in terror and hiding behind my Mom and crying over the scary monkey and it’s monster teeth. I thought it would eat me. My Dad laughed, as did my Mother over this, making me cry more. “I told you not to bang on the glass Clinton.” They told me. The Charles Paddock Zoo is a very nice, humble and quaint little Zoo that is very special because of this memory. However, I also recall several trips to the San Francisco Zoo with all of its Big Cats of all sorts in comparison with the former; with only a couple of IndoChinese Tigers. There were trips to the Morro Bay and Monterey Bay Aquarium with all of the strange Sea Life and Sharks alo. However another memory I’ll always cherish is a trip to the Sacramento Zoo with my Mother involving more “Monkey-Mischief”. I was 12 years old at the time, ironically ten years from the last incident. We saw the strange and wonderful Birds of Prey, the Zebras and Cheetahs. Then we came upon the Orangeton cages. We watched as the big male Orangutan saw us and swung his arms up and ascended to his tree-perch to watch us back. “Cool, look at that Little-Man” (what my Mom has always called me) she said as it stared at us. Then all of the sudden the Orangutan made low grunting noise and began to masturabte in front of us with our full attention. “Oh my god! He’s jacking off at us! He’s playing with his Ding-A-Ling!” My Mother laughed in shock at the Perverted Primate. We both laughed so hard at the Orangutan playing with himself the rest of the day as we saw the other animals throughout the Zoo. Yes, monkeys although not my most favorite like the Big Cats and Sharks, are special to me and my third-favorite animal for many reasons, including the Scary Monkey and Masturbating Orangutan. Animals as I said before, are all special to me and my Family. My Mother had a Miniature-Chow/Teddy-Bear Pomeranian mix named “Chewy”. Chewy was a special dog, although I favor large dogs from favorite to least; Dobermans, Rottweilers, Pharaoh Hounds, Pit Bulls, Boxers, small dogs can be cool. Chewy was a very mean “Little Bastard” (as he was called) that would show his teeth often and growl. Sound familiar yet? No? Well, maybe the next part will show you; Chewy would aslo, well, um, playing with himself with his paws if you petted him to long. Yeah, he was a little sicko. He in a sense was an incarnation of the two monkeys I saw years ago. Chewy also had no fear, as he bit my old dog, a pitbull/mastiff boxer mix named “Beast” in the face. Chewy was evil and awesome. Beast was a great dog too. He was a 165-Pound 11-month-old puppy that was full of energy and loved to play. A game Beast and I would play was “Eat the Tree,” where I would jump and shake a huge, thick tree branch thicker than my biceps and Beast would jump about 8-feet into the air and grab the thick part of the branch with his teeth. Shaking around his body and powerful neck as he would hang until the branch was completely ripped off the tree. Then we would play Tug of War with a huge branch 8-times our size as Beast dragged it across the backyard like it weighed nothing. Beast was a great dog. He was one of many animals I had growing up. My mother and I had many dogs, many cats, a Pot-Belly Pig, Rabbits and Snakes, including a Rattlesnake! A Mini-Zoo if you will. I look forward to my release to Home in California, with giddy anticipation to take my Mother and Father to the Morro Bay Aquarium and the Charles Paddock Zoo again. They divorced years ago when I was 2 years-old and are very close friends now all these years later. I always wished they would get back together and us be a real family again as any child would. When I return home all these years later, I look forward to being that Little Boy again, hand in hand between his Mom and Dad, just another wonderful memory together as a real family all these years later. It was the love of animals and the Zoo that brought us joy, fun and many loving moments, and it will be the Zoo that will always be there to bring us together, and Little Boy and his Mom and Dad, a family forever.