# “A Close Call” by D Gresham

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 09 - September
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-2EQo1x0OZaqHlF5z0abtZJEVbwz9XCBVmsLVpy0Kic/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“A Close Call” by D Gresham**

A Muslim got stabbed in the neck last week. The coward who stabbed him hit him with a lightning rod sharpened to a point and ran, leaving the homemade shank sticking out of the man’s neck. As the Muslim gave chase, out of the dorm and across the compound, blood had begun to leak down the side of his neck and spill over his shoulder soaking into his T-shirt. From every direction, corrections officers sprinted across the compound chasing the fiasco like a game of hide and seek. The whole time with the Muslim with the lightning rod protruding from his neck and bleeding like a stuck pig is avoiding capture to attempt to get his hands on his attacker. The jackrabbit who attacked, outwinded, runs into the arms of the officers to escape the wrath of this enraged, injured Muslim. Seeing defeat, the Muslim surrenders by laying on the ground spread eagle to let the officers arrest him and get medical help. All this, the rest of the compound watches, we are pure spectators to the theatrics, being yelled at to go to our housing units, but moving slowly so we can witness yet another stabbing. Needless to say, we all failed to miss the moment when the FDC Sgt (who I won’t name) prematurely pulls the shank out of the man’s neck, causing a big uproar as blood spills out faster before the medical personnel arrive and press a ripped shirt to the hole. The removal of the shank causes the Muslim to lose conscious and the nurse begins snapping on the Sgt while they call in for a helicopter to save the day. The nurse’s quick judgement and decision to rip the shirt and apply pressure to the inmate’s neck saved his life. Another moment and the doctors said he would have died. The shank never should have been removed without medical around to assess the wound. If you guessed the Sgt got in trouble, you guessed wrong. He still works the yard, laughing about how he almost killed an inmate. It’s only been a week. The Muslim is in confinement pending a protection transfer, he was living righteously, and the man who stabbed him was paid to stab someone else. All these facts are uncovered later on. The Muslim community is in an uproar that a righteous member of theirs was almost killed over a mistaken identiy. Needless to say, the man who got stabbed (Akai) is alive, his speech is now scratchy. To hear the story from him, that was a close call. He says Allah kept him alive when he should have died, he is forever grateful. I must admit with all the blood I witnessed pouring from his neck, I must agree, Allah, or whatever heavenly force exists, had to have intervened. It was a close call.