# “Apologies” by Martin Vicario

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TCekyPyXWEFynRwS3TF3d1jx4zy5Kle3Yolc9Codv1E/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Apologies” by Martin Vicario**

When I think about the word apology, I think about an act of contrition, an expression of regret, a desire, if possible, to turn back the hands of time and undo the mistakes of my life. I believe that I have become wiser with the years, but now and then, I still make mistakes. When I examine my error, I find that I rushed into action without considering the consequences, e.g., writing a letter after a heated discussion, and then realizing I should have not mailed the letter. It is hard to take back words after they have already been expressed. I will apologize, but deep in my heart I regret having not thought things out, especially because I do know better and appreciate prosocial skills. Yet, it is the heat of the moment and the power of the tongue that is written about in the book of James, chapter 3:2, 5, “For we all make many mistakes, and if any one makes no mistakes in what he says he is a perfect man, able to bridle the whole body also… So the tongue is a little member and boasts of great things. How great a forest is set ablaze by a small fire!”

The heat of the moment, and the actions thereafter, alas! Experiencing loss from foolish actions humbles me, and I would imagine it does for many other people that can relate with me. Sometimes walking through the fire is needed to remind me to slow down and consider strongly what I am thinking, feeling, and what I may want to do. I don’t need to say or write anything at that moment. What I need to do is slow down and think. It sure would have saved me a lot of pain, tears, and regret. I don’t care about price when it comes to apologizing. I will apologize! What I do care about is the heartache I may cause the other person. I value their friendship and who they are. I have heard over the years that if you really love someone, you will not hurt them. This is not true. I have learned that in life we hurt the people we love, sometimes intentionally, and sometimes thoughtlessly, because we get lost in the heat of the moment and lose focus on what really is important, such as love.

When I think about apologizing, I have learned that it takes time to heal. Sometimes it is quick, and sometimes healing takes a long, long time. But I also think that apology is strength, it says something about a person’s character because not all people will admit they have wronged someone, or done something that deems an apology. When I apologize, it is from the heart. I believe it refines us and makes us aware of how precious life is and how delicate the social contract actually is. I also believe that if people practiced apologizing, our world would be much better and peaceful. Better, because people would be more aware of the things they say and do. And peaceful, because apologizing would not be a sign of weakness, but instead, a sign of humanity and compassion. No one is perfect, and we must not forget it. I need to forget it! But will I, as I become complacent and have forgotten about the pain and regret? This time the loss was immense, the pain overwhelming, and my memories immersed in regret. If I held the hands of time, I would surely go back and undo my error. I have also learned that when people love, truly love, they will not be able to hate or resent the other person, because people that love also know how to forgive. This means forgiving ourselves too. Personal condemnation benefits no one! When I think of apologies, I will always remember the day I lost my wife and learned that the secret source of humanity is not joy, but sorrow.