# “A Helping Hand” by James D Wisner

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 07 - July
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eQmUzQwE-pNfxSGNk9jRSRocRUUgq_03KXCskumFYXc/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“A Helping Hand” by James D Wisner**

A helping hand usually comes when it’s most unexpected, but sorely needed. It’s one of the many things brothers are good for. I have six of them and one sister. My brothers and I were explorers throughout our younger years. And these adventures would routinely result in trouble for us; but that didn’t hinder our desire to experience new things. We lived next to the Black river when we were younger, and this is where our story is set. It was a beautiful summer day; my younger brother Ben (ten years old) and I (twelve years old) were walking in the river. Attempting to climb every rock face we could find. Our river has both natural and man made arrangements of stone; that to a young boy look like they were made to climb. We arrive at the man made section, here you can climb the wall at varying heights. From six feet to thirty feet tall; we climb the six foot section and walk to the top of the wall. We arrive at a section of the wall that is about thirty feet tall. At the bottom of this enticing piece of wall there is a small spit of gravel and stone at the bottom, surrounded by large jagged pieces of concrete. I’m positive at point that a fall will mean certain death. So of course Ben and I decide to try to climb down. Me being the oldest, have the honor of making the first decent. In my mind I’m James Bond scaling the wall of villain’s fortress. All I need to do to complete this mission is get to the bottom defeat the villain and climb back up. Piece of cake right? I look over my side. It is nothing like the six foot section we just climbed. The large cracks are non existent. All that is there are small protrusions of rough masonry used to build the wall. To me they looked more than perfect. I swing my legs over the ledge. The foot and hand holds I was so sure on feel small and insubstantial. I work my way down so my hands are on the ledge of the wall. This is the point of no return. Any further and I won’t be able to abort the mission. Working slowly, I manage to descend another foot and a half. Then it hits me, I’m stuck. I can’t move a muscle for fear of falling to my death. My hold on the wall doesn’t seem as sure as it had only a moment ago. “F@#$! Ben, Ben I’m stuck” I yell. I don’t see his face because I can’t take my eyes off the wall below cloud my thoughts. I’m sure that I am dead if I don’t do something quick. But my hands won’t let go of the wall. “Gimme your hand Jim” Ben says to me. “I can’t” I yell. I must have hung on to that wall for an eternity, or so it felt. Ben reaches down and grabs my shirt, “I’m going to pull you up, come on.” My mind clears a bit and I make a proclamation to the world; “I’m not going to die before I have sex!” I yell. I lunge, Ben pulls and I find myself on top of the wall thanking God Ben was here to save me. We Both agree that this was a stupid idea and head back to the house. We never really talked about that moment on the wall afterwards; but the next time I see Ben I’m going to tell him how lucky I am to have him as a brother.