# “Apologies” by Master Nkrumah Lumumba Valier

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xGl8hyVTYDP7XyK4Pn3wiKhY0z0ffU7Vx6zNv-yDEYU/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Apologies” by Master Nkrumah Lumumba Valier**

Real love always comes in the form of the truth. So every time someone lies to you, what does that mean? Do they love you by concealing the truth from you? How can we, as human beings, fix what is wrong if we never sit down and address the truth? The truth is you claim that you apologize for slavery and what white people did to Africans during slavery. The rapes, murders, beatings, cruelty, the dehumanization and somethings that were done to black people that were so horrifying that they cannot be mentioned. Some say hey, they apologize to us so just let it go. It was in the past and we can’t change the past because it already happened, we just have to move on, it’s 2017. We even had a black president in America.

Apologizing doesn't mean nothing when no change comes with the apologies. Just ask Trayvon Martin, Charleena Lylas, Michael, Brown, Philando Castile, Eric Garner, Kenneth Chamberlain, Mohammad Bah, Anthony Baez, Akai Gurley, Nicholas Heyward Jr., and 17 year old Nabra Hassenen. It just brings tears to my eyes because it hurts so deep in my heart, that our lives don’t matter to them because the color of our skin is darker. The violence against us has not stopped, it has increased and not one of the police officers was convicted for murder. Some were never indicted because of the “racist, white supremacist” that run the government in America.The justice system is not for us, it’s against us. Just look at TExas alone and see how many prisons it has and how many blacks and Mexicans that fill up those prisons. The amount of time these white people give us is cruel and unusual punishment, in violation of the laws of the United States. But the federal government does nothing to correct these injustices that violate federal law because they are the same white people. They found a legal way to re-enslave us under the 13th amendment section 1. Why are there so many black people in prison that are innocent? White people are mostly the ones in the Grand Jury and always get picked as a jury member at our trials. And the prosecutor appointed lawyer and judge are white. We don’t even stand a fair chance at justice in America when born black, mexican, or muslim. Some did accept their apologies, but those apologies meant nothing to them when it was a lie.

So as black people living in America, we need to understand what the american flag represents for white Americans and the fourth of July, Independence Day. And we must realize that we blindly celebrate something that did not give us the same liberty as white people living in AMerica. So how can any black person say that they are American when that same liberty that applies to white people does not apply to black people? This is not a black angry man venting his frustration on paper to enrage hatred towards white people. This is about what's right and what's wrong. And being able to see the truth through the mountain of lies in front of us. How can a black person commit treason against the American flag when the flag represents the enslaving of our people and the oppression we suffer living in America where that flag flies high. Colin Kaepernick is being punished for not standing during the National Anthem. To non-violent protest against police violence against blacks in America. And the NFL refuses to allow him to continue to have a job playing football. The white man controls the NFL that we blacks spend money to support these racists. Every white person in America hates Colin Kaepernick now for not being a good house nigga when the white man made him rich. And even one good house nigga named Ray Lewis, a former linebacker with the Baltimore Ravens and is currently a sports analyst said, “You want to be an athlete or an activist,” referring to Colin Kaepernick. House niggas like Ray Lewis are the reason blacks have been enslaved for so long in America. Because as soon as God sent our people like Malcolm X, Gabriel Prosser, or Denmark Vesey. It’s always a house nigga like Ray Lewis who gets them killed or murder them for his white master. And all these brothers wanted for all black people was to set us free from slavery. And know that it was only one way to gain black liberty and justice from the oppressor.

There is no apology for the truth. So please don’t be expecting an apology from me for nothing I said. I love you so I can only give you the truth. Malcolm X is not dead, you only murdered his body. His spirit and messages are still alive today. I am Malcolm X! How many of you are Malcolm X, too? Never apologize for the truth.