# “Blank Faces” by Unknown

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1j4y3XYYin5PxpPDUcRijCiaKhRwLKgBgBcN2tIt-wAQ/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Blank Faces”**

What I needed to be sure was written all over her face! A puzzling declaration in a cord? Where did that come from? I can’t remember but it’s written in my memory. There’s significance, but I think it’s only significant when understood in light of all sources and circumstances. Much like “frontier gibberish.” All these straight laced people are staring at me now. Those faces are plain. There’s no picture of facial features around them. I dry heave. Can’t understand it. They’re moving around light-hearted. I ask, “How about those costumes?” Someone else nodded as his glance followed me pointing. “Thank God he played along!” He laughs and asks if I “feel okay”. “Sure”, I laugh a couple times. He was puzzled by my remark. Now it’s more than cold sweat, a pale face, and tingling hands. I go to the nearest bathroom I can find, though I know I won’t be able to pee, shit, or throw up. Of course, all three feel imminent! The small rocks in the pavement, I look for them. A distraction from what I saw. I really wish I’d have held off on those supplements or whatever it was. This is way more than I expected. I still recall the happy smile. I’ve no emotional support animal. Which may help I’d think. Someone non-judgemental, even if he or she is a dog.

An easy out of a story. I think of Seth Rogen in the Christmas movie he did. I can’t think of names at a time like this. What is ideal? I have a list of favorite bathrooms. If it only matters to me I’ve favorites. Though I feel so sick I may not come out of it for hours. I’m gonna text homeboy and ask for help, I think. I’m gonna be in a state where I can’t text soon. I’m downtown in Anderson. Hard as this is, I can’t stop wondering what those two black girls were doing. If it’s not Halloween it should be. Indiana isn’t built to cooperate with this condition. That boy screwed me over good. I at least feel that way. This is so scary, then there’s the courthouse. Far from my favorite bathroom. If anyone asks I’ve the flu. I tell myself, like I’m speaking for me. I already hear the Mantis people. Buzz… oooooh… I go through a door. I feel this is the dumbest idea I’ve ever had. To heck and dalmations with homeboy giving me these supplements. I’m suspicious he did some bait and switch. So mad. I go through security, so paranoid. They ask how I’m doing. “Not great gentlemen. I’m afraid I’ve the flu.” Not completely dishonest I figure. I feel ill, so pretty accurate. I pass through with no troubles. And I go down the hall and into a stall. Absolutely grateful for God helping me to get this far. So I begin a text, pause, check for illegal items. Just to be sure. So if I fall out hopefully I’m not in jail too. I’d rather be in a Hilton with Anna Kendrick. But a toilet will have to do. I’m tempted to use emoticons. Because that way it’s hopefully inadmissible. This is such a terrible idea. I feel weak all over. Homeboy has to give me a ride! I tell him where I am. He’s laughing his ass off. I so need God on my side, language. “So mad at you! You knew what was going to happen!” “See you tomorrow, it’ll be ok just don’t hyperventilate.” It’s been an hour and I still haven’t moved, nor any fluids etc. It’s louder now, the Mantis People. Could be ancient aliens on another plane of existence. Fake it, breathing walls. Phone vibrates. “You’re such a ‘fun guy’ Lol.” Now I’m on my way out. Try to get some other help, first walk past deputies. A nod. Whew. On with the quest, somewhere safe. I rest in the park, now knowing I shouldn’t or won’t die. Always weigh consequences and actions. Not one or the other. Here I go.