# “Blink of an Eye” by Martin Vicario

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 04 - April
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GnX3-KRxXJ1bUEQ0NZiKDhF-avOUzteOhzgiKpL8YNM/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Blink of an Eye” by Martin Vicario**

In the blink of an eye, your life can change forever...in 24 hours, your world can be turned upside down! I marveled at the preacher as he delivered his sermon. I looked around me to see all the men in the chapel were awestruck--they were hooked, because their lives, like mine, were changed in the blink of an eye. And not just for the moment, but for life. And the preacher continued… “We may say, my life is my life and I am going to do what pleases me.” But people forget that we are all connected, and what affects “you” will affect me. Our actions create a domino effect, taking down one person after another. When a common man breaks the law, his family, friends, and society, suffer along with him. Directly or indirectly. When a politician sells out the public for a load of money, everyone suffers! When a preacher compromises his morals for sex in the closet, everyone suffers! When judges turn a blind eye to justice and dishonor the Constitution, everyone suffers. And when a spouse betrays their vows, and the family falls apart, America suffers. We are all connected one to the other, and in the blink of an eye our world collapses.

Life is, but a blink of an eye. I look back at my life and I am amazed at how fast the years went by. The most difficult time in my life is the time I am living now. At present, I am Civilly Committed in Texas on a Unit, The Texas Civil Commitment Center, where men are treated with neglect/abuse, and warehoused like beef. The men on this Unit have already paid their debt to society for the criminal act they committed years earlier. Some of the men did 10, 20, 30 or more years in prison and were looking to go home after so many years of hardship and getting their lives traight. But just before they are released, the State comes with a lawsuit of Civil Commitment to further punish the discharging inmate with a life sentence for the same crime he is discharging. This is known as double jeopardy. And this is only one of the many civil rights that the State of Texas violates, because there are numerous. But what is worse, is that the inmate, now labeled a resident (another name for a prisoner) is sent into permanent confinement with his hopes and dreams dashed. What awaits him is a life of persecution, retribution, and banishment from society. Civil Commitment is based on mythology for the benefit of special interest groups and profiteers that fill their pockets with the agony, suffering, and death of men that should be home with their wives, family and friends...In a blink of an eye life changes, not by fate, but by the corruption and hypocrisy of the State. It is amazing how the elites in this country commit the very same crimes of Sexual Misconduct but rarely go to prison. Even more insulting, is that these elites have slush-hush funds, paid for by the taxpayers, to keep victims of their sexual misconduct quiet. Incredible, the common man does years in prison, pays his debt to society, is not allowed to go home because his humanity and civil rights are violated for the benefit of deep pockets and political offices. Yes, offices that should be protecting the civil rights of the people. In a blink of an eye, Americans have their Civil Rights violated by those that have the most to benefit from it, and then claiming to do it under the guise of Public Safety. In America, there are people abused, neglected, and psychologically tortured in this hell hole called Civil Commitment.

When I look at my incarceration, before Civil Commitment, I completed a Bachelor’s degree, a Master’s degree, and various other programs. In 20 years, I never received a major disciplinary case. I prepared myself for society, to work, pay taxes, and come home to my wife, family, and friends...I am going on five years in Civil Commitment, and recently my wife divorced me. She had an emotional melt-down, she lost hope! She knows the history and brutality of Civil Commitment. A brutality that affects, and is extended to our families, friends, and society. My sons are in their 30s, and heart broken. In a blink of an eye, life changes. Yes! Life changes in the blink of an eye. But I’ve learned that God will not be mocked.