# “Emerging From the Fog” by James Bauhaus

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 06 - June
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sDrhmAZaTWbHUVXlvufR1_ovjsVGPEe9fSkP-6y4R3w/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Emerging From the Fog” by James Bauhaus**

Watching and listening to the politicians and media personalities cluck about all of these school massacres is like being stuck in a fog. A tiny bit of their mutually-beneficial fog was blown away when the child-victims got angry and said, “[Take your ‘...thoughts and prayers…’ and stick them up your asses! We are going to make you do your job!].” The politicians used this trick of retreating into a mythical, religious fog to dodge having to defy their cashgivers’ edicts once too often. The media fog-talkers love this phony “...thoughts and prayers…” line too, because it gives off a superior stench of concern and religious humility without costing them an ounce of real effort. Religious folks are easily fooled, which is why politicians and media fogtalkers play to them so often. Also, it seems that Americans are particularly susceptible to falling for slick-talkers who use religion as the perfect tool for manipulating the gullible and the too-trusting.

Despite some of the child-victims managing to blow away some of the fog-talking, the politicians did only what was guaranteed not to work: they raised the gun-buying age to 21. This only means that angry, half-minded twerps like Cruz and that other shooter will get their guns off the street, similar to how most people have always done. The politicians’ other guaranteed-failure law is to put more guns in schools. Obviously, the solution to too many guns is more guns. Whichever politician dreamed up this nonsense needs his name attached to this law, so we know exactly who is responsible when each successive disaster occurs. The students see these cops in school every day, and know when they will be sleeping in their cars after moonlighting from their real job, where constant attention from their dispatcher forces them to stay awake. If an angry twerp can’t wait for an inevitable opportunity to simply snatch up one of these extra guns from a sleepy cop or a busy teacher, he will just move his massacre a few feet outside the school. More cops at school will only provide an undeserved bonanza for cops and do nothing to stop any future massacres. Allowing teachers to play cop is an even stupider idea. When it becomes politically undeniable that this actually makes things worse, our genius politicians will probably start getting paid secretly by the NRA to squawk, “Give guns to students! They will protect each other! We will just give them cop training!” This, at least, would actually curb massacres, but increase individual murders.

The way to nail these fog-talkers who refuse to make the proper laws is to slam them continuously with a simple, un-squirm-outable idea, such as clips that hold fewer than six bullets. Nobody needs 20 or 30 bullets to kill any animal, and we are not fighting a war. Anyone caught with a bigger clip needs to go to jail, immediately, even if he is a cop, prosecutor, judge or politician. The criminal elite who make our laws make us pay with our freedom. We need to make the elite criminal class pay the same way. They are so good at fogging up the place that they never have to go to jail for their crimes, even though their crimes are much worse. Their crimes of allowing massacres to continue in exchange for bribe money makes all of society suffer for their greed. Refusing to do your political duty is a major portion of all crime in America. They can nail a murderer for life with an accuracy of almost 86%, but they can’t seem to figure out that “lobbying” is bribery, which is a political crime that is somehow impossible to legislate against. When we finally wake up and begin using our constitutional tools to kick off bad laws, (referendum), kick out criminals, bribe-taking politicians, (recall), and use politician bypass, (people’s initiative petition) to make our own laws, then we will finally be emerging from the fog!

Like Kelly Clarkson said to her audience at the Billboard Awards: “They wanted me to ask for a moment of silence [for the school massacre victims]. I’m not doing that. Instead, I am calling for a moment of activism!”

A moment of activism is also a good way for us to begin emerging from the fog.