# “Emerging From the Fog With My Head in the Clouds” by Bobby Bunderson

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 06 - June
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zblth5cJiY4_VGX14KcCNiJeWpRoLo_bRW4PLvFBpZE/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Emerging From the Fog With My Head in the Clouds” by Bobby Bunderson**

I began this piece over a month ago. As I read the word theme topic I knew immediately that I would title it: “Emerging From the Fog With My Head in the Clouds.” An oxymoron-ish title about a guy who has spent the vast majority of his life living a mentally hors de combat sort of existence. It is about a guy who had been unable to escape his perpetual state of mental confusion, doubts and insecurities. With no hope, no future and no chance of an intimate relationship- certainly no opportunity at loving or being loved; this is the story of a guy living in an obscure existence with his head in a fog. This is a story about an underdog, the true life saga of a guy who, against all odds, found a way to persevere. A guy who became lucky enough to have found that “one-someone” special that was capable of illuminating his soul, warm his heart and give him hope.

I wrote the first ten drafts in a virtual state of euphoria. It was my intention to formulate this essay as a parable; a simple story told to illustrate a moral truth. However, after many frustrating hours and a trash can filled past overflow with balled up sheets of paper, I relented. I soon discovered that I didn’t have any clever innuendos, nor any stimulating quips because before I had finished the story, my circumstances suddenly changed. I was forced to rethink all that I held dear to me. Had I been overly optimistic? Was this newly found happiness purely ephemeral? This final draft is therefore wrought with euphemisms. Can I still say that my head is still truly in the clouds? Or has my “cloud-nine” darkened into the abysmal affront of my past? Some say that “hope floats eternal.” I guess only time will tell.

As a child I experienced not minor pitfalls nor any little of life’s normal trials. I had to endure horrors. I put on a brave face and tried to remain resilient but as it turned out my efforts were all in vain. I had been infused with lethal doses of abandonment, neglect, alcoholism, and abuse. Not just physical abuse (bruises heal easily enough), but also: mental, emotional, and spiritual abuse, whose scars are still healing fifty years later. I developed two unhealthy core beliefs. First, that I was unlovable and second, that I was worthless. These two core beliefs understandably resulted in low self-esteem and pitiful self-worth. Inwardly I suffered. Inwardly I lived in a constant state of fear. I had no coping skills; well, at least no “productive” coping skills. And so I learned at an early age to turn off my emotions, dulling the effects of the pain which had etched itself indelibly upon my soul. I did not see the world through rose-colored glasses but rather through a kaleidoscope of cognitive distortions. My beliefs about the world were skewed and jaded. Ironically I still felt if given a chance, if someone would only reach out to me, they would find a loyal, good-hearted person. I felt unloved and unworthy because nobody did. My empathy and my compassion rot on the vine. I became untrusting of people. I wasn’t what you would call a “loner,” but I felt terribly alone. I kept people at a distance because I knew that if they got to know me too well, they wouldn’t like what they found and they would either reject me or outright abandon me.

At sixteen years old I fell in with a new group of people. They were outcasts just like myself. They were known as “the stoners.” Broken, abandoned and discarded like me, they emassed themselves into their own private society. This hodge-podge of beaten dogs were truly a motley crew. But within the dynamics of the group; at its very core was a sense of belonging. A mysterious unnamed bond of loyalty, trust, honor with absolutely no judgments. They had found ways to cope with their pains and at a relatively small cost: $10.00 an ounce, $2.00 a six pack, and 50 cents for a hit of acid. There were pills, mushrooms, peyote, cocaine, LSD, uppers and downers. Love and intimacy were indistinguishable and easily acquired for it was still the times of free love and the sexual revolution. My personal credo was shared by many: “sex, drugs, and rock n roll.” I was enjoying the high and didn’t want to ever come back down. However, several years of unfettered “stonerdom” exacted a heavy toll. The line between lawful and lawless became blurred. I believed that it was “us” (the stoners) against “them” (the so-called moral majority). I did my first term in prison by the time I was eighteen. In 1997 I was sentenced to 25 years to life for robbery as part of California’s “three-strike” law.” Not only am I a three time loser in the penal system but also in the institution of marriage.

I began my recovery in September 2001 albeit slightly superficially, and really got serious about rehabilitation in June 2006. But even through the process of recovery, a part of me, my soul, was still lingering in the fog. Last year that fog began to lift. I had somehow found, against all odds and logic, in the most try of circumstances and in the most unlikely of places, that one special someone who truly touched my heart and soul.

This is not meant to be a “love story.” Well, at least not in the traditional sense. But it is a story of guy meets girl, guy falls for girl and like in Romeo and Juliet, the union is taboo. How can a friendship be banned? So this is the story of how my heart became attached to hers by both respect and affection. It is a story about how she waivers and rejects friendship because of an archaic ethical code which she feels prohibits even the slightest amount of communication. Will she choose an antiquated unenforceable guideline over my heart?

I am currently reading “The Art of Seduction” by Robert Greene. I chose this book as a sort of reference text. I was hoping to gain insight into her psyche, and truthfully perhaps gain some type of advantage in our impasse. What I found was that my “would-be-friend” falls under the category of a Coquette. (This definition is not simply “a flirt” because that she is not!). But rather: “Coquettes are grand masters of the game (of seduction). They orchestrate a back and forth movement between hope and frustration. The coquette alters between heat and coolness with willful precision, keeping you at their heels. She is an enigma. Sometimes she seems somewhat frigid and straight-laced, and at other times she’s tantalizingly smoldering. But the bottom line is that I am only seeking her perpetual friendship.

In my heart of hearts I know that this is my one great opportunity to achieve a lifelong, mutually beneficial, loyal, and unwavering friendship. She has lifted me out of the fog and has placed my head back in the clouds. My old fears are creeping back in. Maybe this wasn’t meant to be my cloud after all? I am bewildered by her. I am not looking for any more growth here. I don’t want or need a new lesson. All I need is a friend. I need my cloud nine.