# “Fear Has a Name” by D. Spencer

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k0Vls-mRLWHktEdEhxlE-XNX5BWjjZmE_Tcnf1QSE7Y/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**“Fear Has a Name” by D. Spencer**

****The slight woman sat in the witness stand in the crowded courtroom. Her hands trembled in her lap as her head bowed low. She was sure that “he” could hear her heart pounding in her chest. She knew with absolute certainty that he could see fear pouring out of her like water from a broken vessel. Her thoughts were a storm that was quickly spinning out of control. The young woman raised her eyes to look out at the people before her. Sides chosen. Some full of compassion… Others holding hatred and anger… Still others just seeking to have their fill of seeing someone else’s drama played out before them. Her eyes fell upon her loving Mother, protectively flanked on both sides by her equally loving Aunt and Uncle. She took a brief moment to comprehend that her older brothers were not there and were protected from the haunting, unforgettable testimony that was about to spill from the woman in the witness box. Her Mother knew best: her brothers couldn’t have consumed the events she would recall without something horrible happening in the courtroom. Her mother caressed her face and tried to convey, “Be strong… Tell the truth… You are not alone.”

The fearful woman’s eyes drifted toward the left where there were faces full of hostility, reaching out to condemn, blame, accuse her of being the perpetrator of some horrific crime. Desperate to not believe, desperate to continue along the path they had chosen early on and stand in support of the defendant “no matter what.” Eyes that she would have to see again and again when she was returned to the prison stared her down. Even then, she somehow understood that they didn’t have a clue as to what they were doing.

Quicker than words can explain or describe, her mind is back “there,” back in a prison cell, tied to a bed, gagged. She is absolutely positive that she is going to die. There is no way that a human being could feel this degree of pain and survive. No way. She knows she is bleeding but not from where or why, but she smells it all the same. Thankfully it wouldn’t be much longer until she passes into consciousness. The bleeding and swelling on and in her brain became a merciful tool, helping her to escape the nightmare. Her heartbeat from then is just as it is now. Her eyes took in the frightening face above her, no longer her friend, no longer a man she once trusted and truly cared about. An indescribable beast summoned from the pits of hell by jealousy and rejection.

When will the pain stop? How will she survive this night? Why isn’t anyone helping her? Her eyes, her mind, slamming back to the present moment. A deep breath… Remember what the psychiatrist said: “It’s really not happening. It’s a reel. Like a movie. You can shut it off.” Easier said than done. Her eyes blink several times, reaching out to fill her mind with her Mother’s tender face. She wants to stand up and scream, to tell everyone that matters that she is too afraid and cannot overcome it. She cannot stand it. She cannot live one more moment with this fear and paranoia. Finally, filling herself with her Uncle’s gaze, she remembers his strength and constant presence as a child. She remembers the courage of her Aunt that got her through battles of her own with a cancerous beast of her own staring her down. Her Mother, God, why does she have to hear this? Why does she even have to experience this with the daughter that she loves and prays for everyday?

That same love fills the trembling woman on the stand, and in an instant, her righteous anger overcomes her fear. She raises a shaking hand and points at the defendant seated off to the left. The same defendant that has glared at her and stalked her every word with his bitter eyes. The same defendant that has been sending her terrifying letters and threatening her life. The same defendant that will eventually plead guilty in favor of a reduced sentence. The very same defendant that will beg for the court’s mercy for his admitted “mistake.” The woman’s face is still slightly drooping to the right with her lips slightly twisted because of nerve damage from a surgery she had to undergo after the assault. Her eyes spark brightly, and in this moment, she knows that she can face fear. She can point hear out. She can identify fear and give him his proper name.

“Yes, sir. I see the man who raped and beat me in this courtroom. He’s right there.” With a sigh of relief, I lower my hand, realizing that although I just faced fear, I must now begin the journey of facing the demon that still keeps me reliving that day over and over again.