# “Flying” by David Whitesell

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 11 - November
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hwrP75_SWBsvopxw9OdI1VjAamcfgJJ8EX7UgOQGxhY/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Flying” by David Whitesell**

As I look, I write! My day starts early. Out the window I look. My life flying by. It's 4:20 AM, as if by chance. Every morning this week I’ve woken at four twenty. I look out the window of the picture of the person of my mind’s eye looking out over the good old city. I look again. Is it an empire? I don’t know. Never been to NYC yet a picture can tell a thousand words. Then I should be able to write a million. My mind’s racing. Can it fly? My mama told me in my youth, listen to me. It will help in your old age, as I look out the window in my mind’s eye. I think to myself I can fly I’m Super Man. No you’re not. Remember gravity son. No such thing as a golden parachute. That’s an oxymoron. Be simple. Think its a concrete jungle. Look nothing good comes from concrete. It is evident. Look at the twins there gone in one hour. She was made desolate. The mighty fell from the sky as they were brought down. I remember that day as I cry thinking back. Can I kill will I die? I can’t fly. My life as a soldier, a warrior as a patriot. 9-11-01 I’ve never forgotten my life forever changed 2 planes as I look out the window of my mind’s eye. I see the war. We all trained for that Unk Sam! Said was coming. It was here. I sat in my living room. Yeah I knew it wasn’t gonna last. The things I had finally worked my life for, would soon be gone. Could I say anything? No. Jimmy H comes on the Radio. I start crying. Foxy lady I’m gonna be leaving soon and you don’t even know. Sorry baby but I can’t say where I’ll be tomorrow. Let alone a week or a year. No need for a tattoo tear drop get them free. You all been looking for me. Look no further when your hungry were feeding the nation. PIA for a safer California. You ain’t dropping no MOAB’s here. We are the MOB and the OCB and if you don’t like it go stick your nose in one corner and be a dunce. You see cause I look out the window and I think I am the South. It’s chilly. I have to stop the traffic light is blue, if you don’t get it? Your life will be tragic and you’ll sit on the window sill of life thinking you can fly when all seems lost. Just remember God, country, corps were out here and if you feel tough then jump! But just remember the only time you’ll be flying high again is that mansion in the sky. I’m flying High again HSM-7B Blue Hawk Boys of the Red and White - and Navy Blue God Bless the USA. Flying Free forever more youth of the nation. Here is my war cry! Scavengers are United States peacemakers. Hardcore Marines Beans Rice and Jesus Christ. In loving memory Jared. Landaker USMC. RIP KIA Afghanistan. USMC highway 18. Landaker Highway North Shore. Big Bear Lake Cal 92333. You are not forgotten little brother. Hello Halo! God loves copper pilots. I’ll see ya soon Green Nation in the dirty south POD San Diego.