# “Flowers, Bees, and Butterflies” by Bobby Bunderson

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 05 - May
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zast3h7gs68kHMpeIPv1v5mUPYE9zgzB88CDwrGDmhI/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Flowers, Bees, and Butterflies” by Bobby Bunderson**

Flowers? What can a 6’3”, 255 lbs., four-time loser serving a life sentence prison say about flowers? Hopefully I will surprise you! First off, I would like to say a few words about how social stigma has “pigeonholed” many Americans into believing flowers to be effeminate basically from the moment we are plunged into a specific gender role. At birth we are swaddled in a decidedly little baby boy or little baby girl “blankie.” Generally blue for boys, and of course pink for girls. This may seem innocent enough, however, the subtlety is not lost on me. In my opinion this is the genesis of the gender schema.

Boys typically spend most of their time with their fathers and engage in rough and tumble play, while little girls are being molded by their mothers to be prim and proper. Boys are discouraged from crying, while girls cry as a matter of recourse. Boys play with toy cars, action figures, and toy guns, and girls play with dolls, tea sets, and other “girl-appropriate” toys. Boys play in the mud outdoors, and girls tend to play indoors.

As is the case for flowers. Boys generally do not pick flowers for other boys- nor do they give flowers to their fathers as a gift. Of course these are only generalizations. Let me be more specific and relate to you my own personal experience with flowers.

When I was perhaps seven years old, my father used to load my baby brother Travis and I into the back of our Corvair station wagon and drive us out to the desert to see the California poppy fields. It was a spectacular sight. Large fields of orange poppies for as far as the eye could see. Travis and I loved to run through them until we collapsed, exhausted, to the desert floor. We would spend the rest of the day catching butterflies and tormenting bees.

I was a “momma’s boy” growing up and I remember going from house to house sneaking flowers from the neighbors’ flower beds to give to my mom. My britches were mudstained at the knees, my face streaked with dirt, as I would proudly hand her the bouquet of ill-gotten flowers. If I hadn’t been so darn cute I think I would have gotten scolded for the misdeed!

As a young adult I used flowers to get myself out of the “dog house” with my significant other, or buy her flowers for no apparent reason which usually led to a little gratuity in the form of “nooky.” Thanks flowers!

When I entered the world of the penal system there were no more flowers, no more bees. No more butterflies. The “yard” was covered in sparse grass and gopher holes. My relationship with flowers had withered away as I feared my soul would too someday. In 1998, I was transferred to Pleasant Valley State Prison in Coalinga, CA. Don’t let the name fool you, there weren’t many pleasantries issued out there. However, I managed to procure a job on the yard-crew and my designated area was a large swath of grass- 10 feet wide by 200 feet long. Inside that area I began planting flowers, bushes, herbs, and some dwarf trees. In a few years time my flower beds were thriving. Suddenly, the bees and butterflies returned. But I no longer tried to catch the butterflies nor did I harass the bees. I simply relaxed and admired these small insects doing what nature intended for them to do. I had grown over sixty rose bushes. I also had planted daisies, petunias, goldenrod, and philodendron. The herbs consisted of thyme, cilantro, and rosemary. I enjoyed my job immensely. Finally I had slowed down. I no longer rushed through life, missing all that there was to see, all that there was to hear, and all that there was to smell. This flower garden was an oasis in the middle of hot concrete walkways and buildings. A place to admire instead of fear. Seven years later I was transferred to Valley State Prison in Chowchilla.

Valley State (also known as VSP) was once a women’s prison, but was now occupied by men. I noticed on my first day that there weren’t any flowers. The following day I went to the back main yard to go to the chapel and that’s when I first saw it. My initial reaction reminded me of all those years ago when my father would drive us to see the California poppies. We’d be driving off road over little rolling hills and as we began to descend we could see the poppies stretch out for as far as the eye could see. That initial view was breathtaking. And so it was when I rounded the corner of the gym and saw the chapel lawn area for the first time. The landscaping was immaculate. Large, lush flower beds encircled a wide grassy area. On one end of the lawn was a waterfall. At the other end, (the entrance), was a stone archway. Large, decorative stones with plaques declaring donors' names adorned a side of the flower beds. This is where I spent my Sundays from 11:00 to 4:00 during our Buddhist services. The flower, the bees, and the butterflies had returned.

I spent three years there until I was once again transferred to my current locale: California Institute for Men in Chino, CA. This is a dorm setting with four dorms on each side of the yard. In between the dorms are “mini-yards,” and they are all well maintained with flower beds and vegetation. So for now my life is once again in the company of flowers and bees and butterflies.

Side note: I have not written the Prisoner Express for over two years. I have immersed myself in college and self-help. However, thanks to a couple of women whom I shall gratefully call my “muses,” I have been motivated to once again share my view of life with you all. The first shout-out goes to fellow writer Catherine LaFleur. Your mention of my story “The Healing Power of Toys” warmed my heart. Isn’t that why we write in the first place? To touch others? Thank you. And to let you know, you are truly my favorite author. I almost feel as if I know you. My second shout-out goes to a woman whom I am absolutely crazy about. Alas this relationship is forbidden fruit but hopefully I can someday melt her reserves and we can remain friends. She inspires my mind, challenges my intellect, warms my heart, and fills me with hope. Thank you.