# “Fox” by Frank Olms

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 05 - May
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SuV0Tdgkb-7KsQR2LnfepxFaHrh1LIroasUe72QmbtA/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Fox” by Frank Olms**

Said the fox, “I’m sick of all your gruff, your loud guffaw just because the obnoxious Prince -- your Prince Charming has me pushing this perambulator around the park with you honkin’ away all day -- HONK-HONK-HONK -- embarrassing me in front of all these … ‘gentlemen’ (they call themselves) just because that Prince says he saved me from that pack of bellowing Beagles, … and for THIS! To be a nanny for some ninny goose that doesn’t want to act is own age! The only things missing from this scene is a pink bonnet and you sucking on a bottle. How old are you anyway? I bet your older than I am, and I bet you outweigh me by at least half a stone, if not more, you fat goose. The only time you walk around is to drop ‘goose-grease’ in the walkways -- I’m surprised that obnoxious puny Prince doesn’t have me shoveling that TOO! … If I had my way I’d huff and I’d puff and blow your beak off!”

“Isn’t, huff and puff what the mean ol’ wolf said to the three little pigys?”

“Yeah, but he didn’t say I couldn’t use his lines.”

“Oh.”

“Come to think of it, I’ll just bet that Prince has a method to his madness.”

“Yeah, and just what do think that is?”

“I’ll bet that ol’ Prince is tryin’ to outfox you and me. And I’m not tryin’ to scare you, you see, but he’s got me pushin’ you around to fatten you up for Christmas which is only a few short months away...wadaya think?” …

“I think maybe I’ll consider flyin’ south for winter, and plan on Leavin’ real soon … like maybe tomorrow!”

“A wise choice, but what about me?”

“You feel like doing battle with the beagles?”

“Hm …”

Launcelot 22 February 2019

Hey Lisa,

This is another story for the picture queue at: [www.prisonerexpress.org](http://www.prisonerexpress.org/) winter 2019, on pages 28 and 29. When you find the page save the address as I have other stories printed by in previous issues.

More to come, and send to Samantha also.

A man said, “cheer up, things could be worse.” So I cheered up, and sure enough -- things got worse!

Give my love to all,

Dad