# “Grandparents” by Christopher Simonelli

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 05 - May
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1B7pMaYlUkGioTEhOaFAPE7ZukXhZlKZ7TEqMpvSRVnI/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

“Grandparents” by Christopher Simonelli

When it comes to grandparents, I can only tell you about my grandmother on my mother’s side because my grandfather on my mother’s side passed away in 1975, 5 years before I was born, and my father left my mother before I was born, so I never met my grandparents on his side. One of my first memories of my grandmother is from the mid 1980’s. Early on Sunday mornings, the two of us would be making meatballs in the kitchen for Sunday dinner. She taught me her secret recipe from every ingredient and how much of them to use to how to roll the meatballs by hand, molding them like a ball of soft clay, dropping the finished product into the hot sauce ever so gently to avoid getting scalded and to prevent any splashing on the stove or walls. We didn’t have air conditioning in our apartment back then so when my grandmother (Nina) cooked, especially during the blistering months of July, August, and September, it was like being in the engine room of the Titanic when the captain of the ship ordered full power in reverse to avoid hitting the iceberg. The aroma of the fresh oregano, parsley, garlic, basil and tomato sauce smoldered as the smell filled up every room of the three bedroom flat, including the hallway leading to the other apartments. On those hot summer weekends, among the smell of Italian bliss, it sounded like a multi-track of perfectly mixed recording of a symphony through paper thin walls of lead paint-covered plaster. The sound of the neighborhood and neighboring apartments filled the air: other kids outside playing, police cars, paramedics, and fire trucks racing towards the next incident or accident, Metro-North train horns blowing on the way to Grand Central Station, infants crying as they are held by their mothers in one arm, wiping sweat off their forehead with the other arm as they want for the Mister Softee ice cream truck to to slowly creep up the block, couples arguing, the older generation playing classic rock, the younger generation packing double cassette boom boxes with the twelve fresh “D” batteries and break dancing to Africa Bambaataa's - Planet Rock on a broken down cardboard box discarded from a recent refrigerator purchase they found lying against a dumpster. It was like a competition for who owned the loudest radio. If Guns n Roses was playing loudly, then Eric B and Rakim turned theirs up louder and, God forbid, my uncle started to drink with the old school Puerto Rican guy upstairs on the third floor. Once they had a few drinks in them, they didn’t care who was playing what on any radio. At that point it was Hector Lavoe or Tito Puente playing or no music at all. As the cold Budweiser and liquor flowed, the break dancers kept breakin’, the dominos kept slamming on the table top, and the meatballs kept cooking on the stove. It’s funny how many good times are remembered from the thought of helping my grandmother make homemade meatballs on Sundays.