# “Helping Hand” by Scott Petrie

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 07 - July
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Helping Hand”** **by Scott Petrie**

A couple years ago I wrote to one of the money-free book places to receive some free books. One day a package arrived with a short letter explaining how my request along with about 2,000 others had been given to this new place as the one I had written to had to close. Little did I know that this request would lead me to one of the most special, caring, understanding friendships I have ever had In my entire life. Even today I am amazed and feel blessed to have found such a friendship, especially through the mail. This individual has followed me from my prison transfer from a U.S.P to a medium, comforting me at the same time as I lost my mom on June 7th, 2018. My mom was my best friend she was always there and now she's gone. Besides losing my mom I lost all the people I had come to know over the last seven years and now I was being forced to leave behind all that I knew to start over yet again. All through this my friend was there sending me reading books and many many words of comfort and encouragement. I was at the medium prison for about a month and a half and then hurricane Michael hit us, we were in its direct path and never in my life have I experienced a hurricane, let alone almost a cat 5 one and here we were taking a direct hit. After two days the whole prison was emergency evacuated to Yazoo, All our property was left behind and for almost 2 months we had nothing unless you had money then you could go to commissary and because I had no one and no job I had no money and now not even what little property I did have. The one thing I did have thought was my friend at this book place and as soon as I wrote it was not long and I had some more books to read but most importantly the encouraging and thoughtful words telling me to keep my head up things will get better. Everyone knows what it's like at the holidays trying to get through them when you’ve lost someone you loved as I did my mom. All through Thanksgiving through Christmas my friend sent me books to keep my mind busy and letters too. The letters became the most important thing. Sure I liked and looked forward to more books to read but its always been the letters that healed and made me feel human and not just another number for someone to count. One day out of the blue I had 20 dollars show up on my inmate account. It surprised me because I had not asked nor did I have anyone to ask for money from. When I found out that It came from my friend at the book place I cried, I could not understand why someone who did not really know me would send me money and I asked my friend why? Why me?? I could not wrap my mind around someone being so openly generous to me, cause no one in my life has ever been that way towards me. I told my friend that when I get a job I would send back the 20 dollars and I was told not to, that it was a gift! Well, I still felt in my heart the right thing to do was to send it back and the reply was, “pay it forward” find someone who needed something be it a cup of coffee or was, “pay it forward” find someone who needed something be it a cup of coffee or ten or just having a conversation with someone but to use this as a chance to touch someone else's life and thus pay the act of kindness forward!! To date. I am slowly paying it forward ... my friend has received 2 letters from “paying it forward” to thank my friend as they were beneficiaries of “paying it forward.” So this friend helped me and continues to help me by being the best friend a person could ask for. It means so, so much just to know that there is someone out there who really truly does care about you, it gives you a reason to want to live!! Thank you to my friend Toby, you know who you are!