# “Heartbeat” by Harold Johnson

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 07 - July
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TJkQzD8XD89tdP0yv3CpIdLPKX1oYTrV-wVWt4xC62Y/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Heartbeat” by Harold Johnson**

“Bump, Bump.” “Bump,Bump.” “Bump, Bump,” I hear my heart, I am excited as I run. “Bump, Bump,” “Bump, Bump”. I am running with my family. That is me in the end,the big alpha; we are on a mission called survival. A few hours earlier, we were waking up in the den, an old cave that has been used by travelers In the wilderness during storms to get out of the elements. The pups are alone now as the grown ups go out to hunt for food so the pups don’t starve. As we leave the den, we stroll along, sniffing the air for any type of scent that seems different. We spread out in three or four smaller packs. There are at least twenty of us in the whole pack, not including the fifteen pups.

Wait, what is that? It is an elk bugle, tooting his horn. It sounds close. “Let’s go!” I run at an even trot towards the sound of this big elk in the distance. There it is, I smell the scent of this musky elk. One small pack takes off towards the right at a nice even trot. The other small pack goes to the left. We are like a well oiled military unit and we have done a similar pattern each time and have been successful each time; that's why we are flourishing and getting stronger as a tribe. “Bump, Bump,” “Bump, Bump,” “Bump, Bump.” My heart is beating strong, like a native drum that I heard once before by a native camp.	Here we go, from all sides we come upon three elks and immediately the two does run for their lives as the big elk turns for a fight with the magnificent antlers atop his head. He snorts, fire in his eyes as he looks at us, a few wolves in front of him. He believes he can stop us from getting to his does. His wish has happened, but, in all actuality he is the one we want. There are a lot of mouths to feed. Just as he was about to charge us, his plan collapses as he notices out to his left and to his right there are more of us. He doesn't know what to do but turn and run. Too late; he is surrounded, we are about fifteen feet from him on all sides. His focus turns back to the front of home and tries to charge me, but one of the wolves snips at his back leg. He lets out a hard kick with a hard blow to the wolf; the wolf yelps, then starts growling, his other leg is attacked, then another leg. I see that his attention is taken off of me. I move in with a fast and fierce move and I jump at his throat. I clamp down as hard as I can. More of the pack attacks and pulls him down. “Bump, Bump,” “Bump, Bump,” “Bump, Bump”. Our hearts beat together. I can feel the elk’s heartbeat slow down. My heartbeat slows down also. We feed on this large elk who sacrificed himself to save others. He has saved his two does and also this pack of wolves and especially the pups. We will survive another day in this wilderness. We make our way back to the den to feed the little ones, tracking through the snow anticipating to see my little ones to feed them. “Bump, Bump,” “Bump, Bump,” “Bump, Bump”. I feel my heartbeat stronger than ever, because I know that we will survive.