# “Helping Hand” by Carl Branson

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 07 - July
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/17k3svux87YtQAf41m_yR9dURf5Kv31nNLtZLVqwxiyg/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Helping Hand” by Carl Branson**

Caring Characters

It was just after 11 PM on November 30, 2018 When I awoke to tend to nocturnal necessities only to discover some tightness in my chest and shortness of breath. Coincidentally, the graveyard security officer was approaching my bunk while doing a formal headcount. I informed him of my distress and requested transport to our health unit. Since the only stereotypical symptom of a heart attack was shortness of breath, I did not believe it to be urgent, emergency circumstances. Therefore, I told the officer to complete his count which would also allow me to dress for the chill night air. Ten, maybe 15, minutes later the c.o. returned with a wheelchair and whisked me to the medical building. Nursing staff immediately hooked me up to an EKG machine. The graph paper record was barely out of the machine when staff was ordering an ambulance for my transport to the local hospital. Just like you see in movies and on TV, the Emts began inserting infusion catheters in my arms and constantly monitored my vital signs. About the last thing I remember upon arrival at the hospital was being wheeled into a room marked “Cath Lab” and being transferred from the gurney to what can only be described as an operating table. From that time until December 10 I was oblivious to everything going on around me, save for one incident which might qualify as a near death experience(“N.D.E.”). In the past, I have read accounts of N.D.E.s with a skeptical aya. Now, I am not sure what to believe. If I experienced an N.D.E, my “out of body” time was one second or less. The only thing I can claim that I saw was the defibrillator paddles being applied to my chest and my body bucking upward-The pain in my chest was unbelievable- and immediately returning to unconsciousness. Although I never got a minute-by-minute, blow-by-blow description of exactly what I went through while “out of it”, the first words out of my cardiologists mouth were: “It's a miracle that you are above ground and breathing.” His second words were equally imperative: “The next cigarette you light will burn longer than you.” This gave a whole new meaning to “Going cold turkey” After some 52 years as a smoker. Also, I was informed that I had been “shocked” a total of 11 times and had the minor electrical burns to attest to it. I will not go into detail regarding security staff assigned to “watch over me.” Suffice it to say that every one of them was not only courteous, but saw to it that I was both comfortable and well cared for by the medical staff. Definitely not the TV/movie stereotype of prison guards. And, speaking of medical staff, there was a young female mobility therapist who, on our first meeting, decided that my 60’s era long hair needed to be braided: Which she promptly completed before starting out therapy session. “Remarkable” was the word that leapt to mind in that instant. I mean, come on, talk about going above and beyond the job description! Detailing all of the other “Little Things” that made my hospital stay comfortable and, yes, even enjoyable under the circumstances would certainly bore my readers. Upon discharge on December 17 I was the proud owner of 5 stents, a pacemaker, and a regiment of 8 medicines to keep me upright and functional. There were many caring hands at work that made It possible for me to write this essay.