# “Homecoming” by Gary Farlow

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 08 - August
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1e8R-W_UaOK5a5iGBzDsh3TuBZeZZcNYqAtr41X68ePI/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Homecoming” by Gary Farlow**

Next to the annual harvest dance and the occasional revival, the biggest event for most of the folks in the Lake Swamp was the yearly homecoming at the Lake Swamp Missionary Baptist Church. Grandma was a Catholic, as were all the Jordans from Ireland. But Grandpa David’s family were staunch Baptists. Grandma often remarked just under her breath that Baptists were nothing more than Methodists who couldn’t read. Yet, Grandma pitched in each year for a church that truly believed in the yearly get-together of anyone who has ever been a member of the congregation.

“It was always a good time when it was a homecoming,” insisted Grandma “I suwannee, there was preaching and supper on the grounds and it was just a special occasion.”

Homecoming didn’t take a break, even during the Great Depression or World War 2. In fact, It became even more important as the depression took many out of work that had moved to the “big cities” of Columbia or Atlanta. The homecoming brought many back to Lake Swamp and reestablished the ties that life had stretched, and In some cases, broken. One of those broken ties had been Uncle Marion and Aunt Libby’s son Cletus.

“Lake Swamp was never good enough for Cletus,” Grandma said. “Why, he jus’ felt he was better than simple farm chores.”

Sure enough, the minute that Cletus was able to scrape together the bus fare to anywhere, he was gone.

“He jus’ packed up some clothes and he was on his way,” Grandma said. “It near ‘bout broke poor Libby’s heart! And Marion? Why, I don’t believe he ever go quite over it.”

That was 1927. For over two years nobody heard a word from Cletus.

“We didn’t none of us even know where he was!” Grandma exclaimed. “Not nary a letter or even a postcard to let anybody know a thing!”

October of 1929 saw the infamous crash of the stock market and the collapse of Wall Street. Banks failed, fortunes were wiped out, and thousands lost jobs as an estimated 10 million were out of work In just days. By the summer of 1930 the good folk of Lake Swamp realized their blessing of living on the fertile farmland of the South Carolina low country. Cletus, however, had not been as fortunate.

“We all knew that things were bad up north,” Grandma said sadly. “Ever’body had heard of the bread-lines, ‘Hoovervilles,’ and the closed banks. But when Cletus pulled up to Marion’s barbershop In a brand spanking new 1929 Packard, well, we all thought that Cletus had surely made his fortune.”

It would have been easy to assume. The 1929 Packard was priced, fully loaded as Cletus’ was, at around 6,000.00. Not a lot by today’s standards but this was 1930, and six grand would buy a new home! A very nice new home at that. So when the farmers In Marion’s barbershop heard the unfamiliar “ugga-ugga” of a car horn, they all stepped outside and saw a rather “dandified” Cletus alight from the car.

“Oh my, but he was dressed to kill,” Grandma shook her head. “Cletus always was a good-looking boy, but gussied up In them city clothes, we all just’ knew that Cletus was as rich as Midas.”

What the folks of Lake Swamp didn’t know was that Cletus’ car was not even his own, but belonged to the flimflam mobster that Cletus had worked for. He had coasted into town on fumes with only the clothes on his back, and hadn’t eaten in nearly a week! Lake Swamp was the only place that Cletus could come to and have a square meal and a roof over his head. But no one knew this as Cletus walked up to his father and, as tears welled In Marion’s eyes, the two embraced. Such demonstrations of familial affection were rare among stoic farm folk. But Cletus was Marion and Libby’s only son and he had been away for a while, so it was to be expected.

“Talk about killing the fatted calf!” Grandma exclaimed. “Lordy, Libby flew in and started a’ cooking, while Marion commenced to invite pert near the whole county! It was gonna be one hootenanny, let me tell you!”

Forgotten were the months that no one had heard a word from Cletus. He was home and by all appearances, he was rich. Marion asked everyone to come and see his “city slicker son” and get a ride in the expensive Packard. Folks flocked to Marion and Libby’s house for a peek at what had become of Cletus. Tables were set up outside under the Magnolias to accommodate the crowd as food and Marion’s own moonshine flowed. Cletus was busy taking anyone who wanted for a ride around the county in his shiny automobiles.

“It was a fine affair,” Grandma said. “Ever’body came and you could just see the pride and joy on Marion and Libby’s faces as folks glad-handed and back slapped Cletus as If he’d never even left.”

Noticing Cletus’ lack of belongings other than the clothes he was wearing, and of course the Packard, my Grandpa David, the sheriff of Darlington County, remarked, “You travel a mite light there, dontcha cons?”

Cletus had no ready answer, but of course Marion came to his rescue, “Oh well, now, David, the boy was jus’ in a hurry to get home. It’s been a good long while.” Grandpa David didn’t respond, but kept silent council.

“Somethin’ jus’ ain’t right,” Grandpa David remarked that night to Grandma. “Don’t rightly know what, but there’s jus’ a thorn In my craw that’s tellin’ me that all is not what it appears with that boy.” Grandpa David didn’t get to be sheriff for no reason at all!

For the next week or so, Cletus made the rounds all over Lake Swamp, Timmonsville, and even to Florence and Darlington. Now, everybody In the county knew and respected both Marion and Libby. Their name was good as gold. Cletus knew this and everywhere he went, he made purchases that when it came to paying for, he had “absentmindedly” left his wallet back In Lake Swamp. All the merchants, without exception, would simply nod, smile and say “No problem Cletus! Jus’ take care of it next time you’re passing by.” Word had spread of Cletus’ “fortune” and folks just knew he was good for it.

Questions started being asked when Cletus attempted to sell his Packard to Sansbury Motor Company in Darlington. “Plug” Sandsbury had known Grandpa David and Marion for all their lives. They hunted, fished, and drank “shine” together, and Plug wouldn’t let another barber within twenty feet of his hair. It just had to be Marion.

“Plug was a big supporter of David ever’ time an election came ‘round; he was a ‘yellow-dog’ Democrat for sure,” Grandma insisted.

Cletus had no paperwork for the Packard, and couldn’t vouchsafe he was, in fact, the actual owner. Not to mention that he was only trying to get pennies on the dollar for an automobile that precious few people could even think about buying during the Great Depression. Plug put Cletus off, telling him he was interested but to give him a few days to raise the cash. Cletus accepted this and Plug immediately went to see Grandpa David.

Apparently, had run up quite a few bills around the area, ranging from clothing to gasoline. Merchants knew Marion, so of course they just figured that the credit was good. When Plug came to see Grandpa David and told him of Cletus’ attempt to sell the Packard but having no proof of ownership, Grandpa David had his suspicions were confirmed.

“David t’weren’t happy about being right at all, I can tell you that,” Grandma said sadly. “He just’ knew it was gonna break poor ol’ Marion and Libby’s hearts, that’s for sure.”

Grandpa David had Plug to stick with his story about needing a few days to raise the cash that Cletus was wanting and to keep it between them. In the meantime, Grandpa took it upon himself to visit all the various businesses where Cletus had ran up a tab. By today’s standards, it didn’t amount to much, but in 1930 it represented more than many, if not most, people earned In a year of honest labor. Next came a private one-on-one visit with Cletus.

“David said when he asked Cletus to take a little ride with him, why that boy looked like he’d seen a haint!” Grandma remarked, shaking her head. “I ‘spect Cletus knew the jig was up!”

Cletus knew all right. Before Grandpa David could even get the words out, he was bawling and telling the whole sordid tale. It seems Cletus had went to Boston and fell in with huckers in the mob and was running numbers for them. When the Boston police became wise to the con men, they hopped the next train out, leaving poor bumpkin Cletus literally holding the bag. Cletus didn’t know what to do but get in the Packard and head south. With no money, no clothing, and little hope, Cletus figured that neither the police nor the mob would come looking in rural South Carolina.

“David never did believe much In banks,” according to Grandma. “He had this big ol’ safe that he kept his money in.”

A good thing too, as the Farmers and Merchants Bank of Timmonsville went belly-up like all the rest. Dipping into his savings, Grandpa David took out sufficient funds to settle all of Cletus’ bills.

“We weren’t rich by no means,” Grandma insisted, “but David had always had a way 'bout him for puttin’ back a bit of money here and there, so there was some. He jus’ couldn’t abide seeing Marion and Libby get all torn-up due to Cletus.”

Cletus had been trying to amass enough money to book passage on a steamer for Venezuela where he planned to work In the new oil industry there. Grandpa David paid for his ticket as well. When Cletus told Marion and Libby that he was South America bound, they seemed to take it in stride. No word of his debts and criminal exploits ever reached them.

“I expect that both Marion and Libby knew in their hearts that Cletus’ visit was only temporary,” Grandma said.

The Packard posed a problem. It had ties to the Boston mob, after all, so It wouldn’t do to let an unsuspecting buyer wind up with “cement shoes” for just happening to be behind the wheel of a mobster’s car! Grandpa David made arrangements with the Pacific and Orient ship captain down in Savannah where Cletus was boarding for Caracas. Last but not least, Grandpa David wired the Boston police to let them know that Cletus left the country and In all likelihood would not be returning. This was just fine with the Bostonians as they had their own problems fighting the bootleggers trying to get around Prohibition. Grandpa exacted a promise from Cletus In return for bailing him out that he’d write weekly to Marion and Libby.

“It was as big a send-off as a body could get’” Grandma said. “Everyone gathered at Marion and Libby’s to see Cletus leave for Savannah and on to South America.”

No one ever knew what became of the gangsters that left Cletus holding the bag In Boston. But soon after his departure, photos and letters began to arrive to Marion and Libby, as well as Grandpa David that showed a tanned, smiling Cletus posing with the Packard amidst Venezuelan workers in front of an oil rig.