# “Interval Between” by Todd Leatherland

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 06 - June
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1C0Y7Tqs0P_QkkLZsLpOt_yyo2dIpJzmMkq18XKI033k/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Interval Between” by Todd Leatherland**

****What is emerging now that the lenses are crystalline? Certainly, the sages uncovered the secret of clarity. Know thyself now; the fog remains to be seen. A pea soup felt in the fibers, hanging heavy upon the soul of a resilient tread. To emerge is to imply activation by reflecting back to a tombstone grid-plot vantage point of grave errors. Truly a strange exercise, these footprints in the sand, escaping the encroaching tide. Altering the epoch; taking a trance. The purposed stride suddenly becoming uncertain in the elemental encounter. Decisive moments frequent the intangible; prescient possibilities fade obscurely and dissipate. The fog rolls in like creeping death. Is emergence possible in this continuum? A perspective hinging on an introspective pivot. Situational awareness is identified as a destined inevitability, decrying the way. Pushing forward is intrinsically obsessive… or compulsive… depending on your poison.

Emergence dynamically implicates survival. She emerged victorious; he emerged from the dead; we emerged from the fog; the encircling sun emerges as a radiating constant; just like our own lives. Cycles are experienced by our beings in encapsulating wavicles. These enmeshing dimensions overlap now, yet, the inner sanctum encourages telescopic hindsight. “I cannot find my center of gravity,” because the shifting waypoints confound transcendence. When does the fog melt and lucidity begin? Is emergence a crossroad or a goal of finality? Perhaps, it flirts with dawn, dwelling in flax amidst perception. The East Wind whispers a world word in ancient concrete hebraica: beyn; it senses the interval between and within- separating light from the night- discerning the conveyance of a moment of monumental momentum. I die daily. The interval within is an intuitive state of hive mind minus the hive and the high five.

The artificial clouds conceal the deep state of variable fog. There exists a galactic fog machine spewing forth acrid ooze over the Milky Way’s dance floor. I stall in a legendary b-boy stance, and glide upon the live third rail- always energized son. Yo Brooklyn! The mythical narratives injected by the mind invaders encourage quasi creativity- and we emulate and embellish with relish and gusto. Smart fog is ironic… an irony of oxymoronic proportions; it clouds our consciousness, then calculates the very reaction- circumspectly. Synthetic swarms monitor the illusion of choice, as homo evolutis evolves a transhumanistic inclination toward telepathy. Can you feel me now, my empathic confidantes? Hark off yonder rises the inspiration of a time traveling vanguard. The wormhole beckons. Where are the pillars of creation? Samson sees not; eyes lost to vanity fair, knocking down the house- leaving neural dust hovering over the aftermath, surprised by its own sudden appearance. Indeed, there is no anchor of the soul for a wayfaring stranger- only fog remains.

Nevertheless, the great and secret show must go on. Dare truth be uttered? Resurrected? To beget a total immersion of a soul towards awareness is to slough the cocoon of illusive escape permeating the present. Apple cider vinegar decalcifies the pineal gland; there must be something in the water. Strange weather we are having also. The Company witch doctors realized controlling the revolution meant leading it. As above, so below; above the doorway of the CIA are the inscribed words: “and the truth shall set you free.” Can you imagine? Below, the dragon spewed forth a flood of lies after the remnant of her seed. It is a subtle and crafty design. Check the source. Whose line is it anyway? The white rabbit’s black hole is a void in the Aether, a well drilled deep with Tehom yawning; these cyborgs have bad breath. The inciting marquee reads: “Compassionate Consciousness Combats the Concentration Camp.”

Like a sonar ping, our voice emerges from the mist echoing off the dew drops. On the fringes, an altered state merges with the cosmic collective, animated by the impulses amongst its adepts in entangled quantum connectivity. The Birkeland current aligns the heavenly luminaries with ensuing harmony. Momentarily, we are alive and luminous, thriving and numinous; traversing the space where time does not matter, and the realization of transformative transmutation abounds. That smile reminds me of why your name means it melts the footprints in the snowdrift. Now, I find my way back to you and forever- frequenting the place between the interval of sleep and dream.