# “Inspiration” by Christopher Galindo

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 01 - January
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EdaxnsmrHt1PFIk-z0_yvnyfx1IS3ihnIxAUGdh-Thw/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**“Inspiration” by Christopher Galindo**

Where does your heart lie? What does it mean to be inspired?

If you look up the word, you would get a clinically detached exposition like: “to affect”, or “to exert an animating, enlivening, or exalting influence upon.” It is the act or power of moving the intellect or emotions of others. And, while that just about sums up the word, it falls short of the depth of its meaning, its intrinsic value.

What do you think of when you hear the word “inspiration?” A legend? A hero? A public icon like Jay-Z or Johnny Depp? Do you think of warriors like Musashi, Alexander the Great, or Proximo? Do the works of artistic geniuses dance on the fringes of your mind like wood nymphs, shaping murals and sculptures signed by Da Vinci, Michaelangelo, or even Dali? What is it that inspires you - stokes the fires of passion and paves the road of dreams within you?

For me, I think, inspiration shouldn’t be an attribute assigned only to the “great men” of the past, but a quality found in everyday life. My personal inspirations - my muses - have changed over the years, for I have also changed fundamentally, but their influence has never been forgotten or diminished in my mind. When I was a boy, broke, fatherless, and starving, my inspiration was my mother. She was a single parent with three sons - of which I was the youngest - and worked just as many jobs so she might claw for enough money for us to survive another day. I rarely saw her, and my memories of those earliest days of my life are often blotted out by the abominable hunger that incessantly gnawed at me, up to the point that it is really all I can recall of my childhood. But I do distinctly remember that when my mother finally came home, after spending her day and most of her night doing only God knows what to make sure we had what we needed to survive, she was always full of love and warmth. I know she cried a lot back then, I heard her when she thought I was sleeping; but, in front of her boys, she was a rock. A refuge. A shield. Her determination and unquenchable spirit made me want to be just as strong as she was, if not stronger. My grandmother’s gentleness, purity, and indomitable faith next breathed inspiration into me. My grandfather’s dry wit and full-hearted laughter. My brother’s cocksure bravado. These were the influences that shaped me.

Inspiration came to me, not from the “big timers” in Hollywood - since we never had much in the way of television-but the little people in my life. And if you are one of the cynics that believe that “little” things in life are trivial, let me give you a bit of street wisdom: NOTHING is trivial. Ever. The moment you forget it, the moment you take the little things in life for granted, you lose them - sometimes irrevocably. It’s not until we lose what matters that we can truly appreciate just what we had.

This is what happened to me when I fell from graceful poverty to the abysmal bottom of the rock pit that is hopeless destitution. In prison. Alone. And forgotten...This may seem like I am taking the liberty to express a cliched, personal sob-story, but, let me assure you it’s relevant to the subject matter and I won’t keep you longer than necessary.

I was a teenage kid on the cusp of manhood when I got locked up for my first monumental mistake. I had no gifts, no talents, no job skills, and no areas of expertise-unless one can count a bad sense of humor, a love for weed, and a knack for finding myself in bedroom relations with women older than myself. And, while that was all very educational and fun, I’d forgotten that life was not simply a game of chance. I’d lost just about everyone I knew and loved in one day, the rest of my family and friends would abandon me within the following year. I literally lost all of my worldly possessions, I lost my spotless record and my freedom (along with any hopes or dreams of ever being a practicing M.D.) and I lost hope for anything but a quick death as a number in a steel cage. Yes, life was a rather bleak cesspool for me at the end of my teens; but I am a survivor by nature. It was instilled in me from birth to fight. To never give up, never back down, to claw for life and anything in it that is good. To salvage, scrimp and save. To find the positive in the negatives and believe that I could win out because I was freaking ten-feet-tall-and-bullet-proof...or...at least, capable of taking whatever cheap shots life took at me. That was what the little people in my life had seared into my very soul. Even when I wanted to do nothing more but the opposite, wallow in self-pity, lay down and die, I couldn’t. I was too damned stubborn.

As such, I got back up and dusted myself off, analyzed my new surroundings and built a broken boy into a solid man. It was harder than anything I’d ever conceived of doing; and it was also easier than I thought. Essentially, to change, to grow, you have to want it. No one will hand it to you, and - most often - no one is going to help you do it. The only people who return back to “their old ways'' are those who didn’t truly wish to leave them, simple as that. I learned quickly that everyone around you is an inspiration - they are the people you either want to be or would hate to be, they are all examples of what you could become given the dynamic of your decisions. Between the addicts that refuse to change and the self-taught artists that tackle their work with an ethic that would put professionals to shame, I picked the latter. Between those unchanging, self-deprecating men who flock to the comfort of numbers and gang colors in exchange for individuality, and the unique, strong-minded individual with his nose in a book and his mind on the future, the latter, again, appealed to me. I found that I could be inspired to do what was right rather than do what was convenient, to stand when standing was not easy, to walk on my own two feet and grow in spite of the crippling dehumanization of the prison system. I was inspired by other “criminals” (who are really just people who have made a mistake, like anyone else) rather than the studio-gangsters in Hollywood who had inspired them to become such. The little people the world forgot, rather than the stars that are blowing up social media, wreathed as they are in blinding light. In my ten years of incarceration, I taught myself to write better than a seventh grader (which is the most accurate description I could attribute to my penmanship when I graduated highschool) by reading. I taught myself math, well enough that it became my best subject in college, where it was once my worst subject as a child. By teaching myself, I cultivated a talent in art and book writing, through so much trial and error, irritating mistakes, and dogged determination. I am now good enough at both crafts to make a career of writing and illustration. I’ve completed two degrees, mastered two vocational trades, learned valuable job and leadership skills, discovered what true friends really are, and won the mental war against substance abuse and self-defeating deprications. All of this I’ve learned in the most negative of circumstances in the world. In my life, I have been staved child, a clown, a sex addict, a loser, a criminal, but so too have I been a student, a friend, a mentor, a teacher, a businessman, and--yes--even an inspiration to others around me. Just as you, my friend, whoever you are, are an unwitting inspirational influence to the people around you.

Everyone can teach us something if we’d only look hard enough: how to be, or how not to be.

Everything, big or small, can inspire us and move us on an intellectual and emotional scale: music, dance, art, movies, people, nature, science. From the sound of a typewriter, to the laugh of a child, to a breathtaking view of the unclimbed mountains that loom on the horizon, inspiration is in all things.

Remember that when you seek your next muse in whatever craft you practice with passion. Consider, when you feel lost, hopeless and numb, that there are others who have it worse than you and still fight on--Because life is worth fighting for. Inspiration can come from the most unlikely of places (I can’t say this enough) and is often not a thing that can be simply taught in words, but needs to be lived. It must be felt to have the true depth of its meaning understood. The mind must be set to tumbling into creative emotion, emotions stirred like a churning maelstrom in the twilight, whether you are living the high life or have found yourself in that familiar terrain known as “rock bottom”. And if you are of the latter, my friend, let me assure you that: once you’re at the bottom of the barrel, the only place you have left to go...is up; but, that all begins with you getting up and trying again. Life isn’t over until it’s over/ There are positives hidden in the negatives, narrow pathways that lead up rather than spiral down, but you have to seek them. You have to stand for them, believe in them, fight for a change, and prove to others--to yourself--that it can be done.

So I ask you again: where does your heart lie? And what does it mean to be inspired?

Christopher Galindo #1768808

Stiles Unit 3060 FM 3514

Beaumont, TC, 77705