# “Lonely at the Top” by Michael Thomas

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 11 - November
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KrbExXOMh0MOA54clapGU1MaPQDdh6yU-bmhku-k0uo/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Lonely at the Top” by Michael Thomas**

As I sit in my favorite perch in the window of my penthouse condo in Midtown Manhattan in the Trump Towers building, I often reminisce about how I came to afford such luxury. My intentions were never to become successful at all… Well, you know, we all have dreams, but becoming a high paid model and fashion designer wasn’t what I had planned.

Growing up near Cape May, New Jersey, my formative years were uneventful, being the daughter of a registered nurse and a father who was a former Navy midshipman and current longshoreman. I guess it’s safe to say that I grew up middle class, and with two working parents and being an only child, I sort of had the run of the mill around my home and I practically raised myself. Yes, my parents were there, sometimes; at least, my mother was. My dad made his money at sea and sent home plenty of it.

I breezed through elementary school, but I became a free spirit in middle school. Towards my sophomore year, something caught my eye! By this time, I was 15 years old, tall, petite, and curvaceous with blooming anatomy. What caught my eye was the “84” Chevy Camaro given to him by his dad prior to his senior year as a gift and incentive to finish school, the one and only 6’3” linebacker of our high school football team, Sebastian Cooper, a.k.a. “Man Child” on the football field. Yes, it was his car that caught my eye and the airbrush design he had emblazoned on his doors of the lime-green metallic paint job. Needless to say that opposites attract and so, one day, on my way to school as I crossed the student parking lot, “Man Child” whistled and said, “What are you looking at?” My response was: “Your car!” This drew a wild laughter from Sebastian. From that point, well, you know the story. He asked me, not only on a date, but to go with him to Wildwood, New Jersey, for senior week prior to his graduation in June. Well, before even getting my parents’ consent, I said yes and that I’d go. I never asked for consent for such matters. All I had to where I was going and when I’d be back. I was grown, the big 1-5 (one-five), 15 years going on 16!

It was during this hiatus that I discovered fashion. Of course, spring and summers in WIldwood with amusement park seaside on the boardwalk brings people from all over nearby states: New York, Virginia, Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and of course, New Jersey. With an eye for things artsy, or I guess you could say visual arts, the way others styled themselves and the unique variances, whether one was scantily clad in a fuschia and combo metallic orange bikini or purple speedos, having been fed a full course of this with Sebastian during his senior week trip resulted in my first business venture.

As with most of the love stories, of first loves, my shining star quickly became another star in the universe as Sebastion “Man Child” Cooper went on to college to become a star linebacker, jock, and ladies’ man. His excuse for dumping me was “I’m really busy with my studies and we are too far apart to love each other.” Well, I told myself, that’s (bull____!) because my dad is a longshoreman and he never stopped loving me and my mom when he was 3900 miles away in the middle of the Pacific with 200 tons of cargo aboard his vessel.

I can now thank Sebastian. You see after my freshman year, my mother began asking questions about what I want to do with life when I graduate school. My answer was to go to Wildwood this summer. Duh!! My mom looked at me as if I had said, “I’m joining the Hells Angel Motorcycle Gang.” Seriously! I then began by telling my mom that I had taken an art class as an elective and I had an idea. What? A T-shirt booth on the boardwalk. My father always knew I was good at art, but my mom, at that time, was busy at the nursing school. Dad wired me $2000.00, and along with my friend and business partner, Liz, and her boyfriend, Ed (real estate tycoon and lifeguard), we began my venture. Actually, Liz’s boyfriend, Ed, had an efficiency apartment he rented from his lifeguard salary and took me in to help pay the bills, so we could all save some money. My answer to my mother’s question about lodging was answered, and she felt that she could allow me to pursue my business venture since I had also answered her question (“What are you going to do with your life?”) to boot. And, so now, an entrepreneur at 16 with one year to go before college, I bursted into the fashion scene. Over the course of the winter semester’s art class, I had learned graphics and computers-assisted art design, etc. I had hardware and software that I used to scan my artwork and then have tacted for iron on printed for T-shirts. Liz and I went on a shopping spree at the dollar store and even went online to Hanes to purchase various sizes and colors of T-shirts. Liz also contacted the business association of Wildwood and beachfront stalls to lease a spot for the summer. With all systems ready to go, it was now my turn to muster up the courage to ask my art teacher to assist me with the purchase and set up of the print hardware and software. Liz’s boyfriend was on board along with his lifeguard friends to help with the moving and hauling aspects. So, with my mom’s business savvy and eye for details, she helped us with the shop’s delicate details and it was off to the races.

My dad’s investments paid off. Also, I set up a website and made flyers for the business and circulated those to high school friends, churches, the library and along the boardwalk… You name it! My junior year flew by as I filed financial aid papers and prepared for applications for grants as I continued to plan for and develop my brand and summer job at the beach. As my senior year approached, I had less time for maturing boys from the pool of lifeguards, no pun intended, as the online sales grew enormously. My mom set up a business account with the bank along with money market accounts, mutual funds, U.S. savings bonds, my debit account card in which I paid myself with a direct deposit account along with other investments. I soon had to switch my business status from sole proprietor to LLC for obvious reasons, albeit tax purposes. I was a celebrity of sorts during my senior year. Not only had I dated the hottest senior football star and team captain, Sebastian “Man Child” Cooper as a sophomore and had a stew of lifeguard friends, I also developed into an attractive young lady. Once again, something else caught my eye, but this time, it wasn’t a design on the door of a popular guy’s car I went to school with. It was my admissions application to NYU. I was accepted to begin a degree in Marketing and Fashion Design. Not to mention that I became a runner up in the Ms. Senior Fashion Show (an event in which the ticket proceeds supported the senior prom festivities), a photo op in the school newspaper, a $100.00 McDonald’s gift certificate, and a $100.00 shopping spree at Walmart. Wow! It was fun and was an opportunity to promote myself and my entrepreneurial endeavors.

The Big Apple, New York City! After graduation, I moved from Cape May, New Jersey to attend NYU, and once again, lodging became an issue. My dear old dad, the longshoreman, former midshipman and master navigator certainly would work magic with logistics to get a place so I can pursue my fashion and marketing degree.

During the fall, my dad was on a two month leave from being at sea in which he planned around assisting me make the adjustment and move into my new place. LIttle did I know that he found me a place. A graduation present of sorts… A penthouse at the top of the Trump Towers. It was close to college and adequate transportation. With my business now on a contractual basis with T-shirt sales to Nike, Planet Fitness, Macy’s and Asics Running Sport and a loan from the bank-approved based upon my assets and financial projected wealth, along with a hefty down payment from my father’s longshoreman savings, I had arrived at 19 years old going on 20. Well, my mom had asked what I wanted to do with myself during my sophomore year in high school. I told her that I wanted to go to Wildwood. I was serious! And now, I look from my perch down at the city, midtown Manhattan, the “Big Apple”, and think… I’m so focused, so busy with modeling, business, school, eating, sleeping and have little time to party or be a socialite. My life is like a dream come true, thus far. I’m proud of myself. Pat myself on the back? Why, why not.... I have to pat myself because there’s no one else to do so because it sometimes gets lonely at the top.