# “Nation” by Akai McRee-Tran

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 12 - December
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/168k6qveiC3cLPIPOqSvpdzbCad6iRwkf62mF8h0J2Ec/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**“Nation” by Akai McRee-Tran**

I ask myself, “Can I keep the faith when we live in a soulless world?” When hope is measured by how much you have accumulated, it’s hard to see what pain others are going through, so ask yourself what is hope and what is the meaning of faith. We are quick to blame others for our shortcomings, especially as life gets darker and darker for those who can't outrun the fact that the weak are just pawns of this so called chess game, like how an innocent life taken by police is only reported for about four seconds of the news. On the other hand, if an officer is hurt or killed, the news makes a whole segment and calls it a horrible crime! It is just black lives matter, all lives matter or just that police lives matter, to whom? I say that only on T.V., no one really matters: either you are rich or poor, and that's what really matters.

So why rely on so much faith, hope, love and togetherness when so many turn a blind eye to the truth of life? Just look at when a child is raped and then the rapist only gets a slap on his hands from the judicial system. Any crime should never be looked upon lightly, but why do so many rape victims have to re-live their suffering by getting judged again and again, if justice is blind? I think she, justice, is deaf and dumb also.

Now tell me where is your hope when someone's childhood had been stolen, or where is the love when a family is destroyed by the misery of another? Look at the young nation: it was founded on the idea of killing its indigenous peoples then enslaving a whole new nation! But did that deter the so called greatest country in the world to pass judgement on anyone that opposes it? On our walk of life, I guess ignorance is a disease that over takes a nation. Give it time to see that what you’re reading is not knowledge. What makes you smart or even educated is knowing how you are and what you have to become. Open your eyes to see what life is not what they say it is. Look at all the suffering that so many have, but yet if this is a great country, the scales of justice are sometimes not even.

So is life unfair? You can only make the best of it because the hope of things getting better and the faith of a new beginning are dreams of none. Look at the past and see the same future, death, despair and destruction. So as we close our eyes to keep the truth from ourselves, we smile and live a lie while the rest of the world falls apart around us. Yet this great nation is on top of the food chain, and everyone else lives in a third world country. Only if the truth was that easy to say, as many lie better in prison than in the free world as they get three meals a day, a warm bed, clothing, T.V., radio and even commissary. There are phone calls to your hard-working family member to lie about how bad they are treating you so they can send you more money for you to gamble away. If the truth was said, what would this great nation be? It’s like living in a dream without ever going to sleep. In American prison, if one lies enough or stretches the truth a little, he can have anything. Lie your way to the top--or until you get caught! It’s a cat and a mouse game, and life goes on. Where to live or die to me is all the same, but this great nation is one of a kind with all its curves and twists. Only the important ones will live on, and those that fade in the distance are just that, fading. As lives are changed by those that run this great nation, only those that have never closed their eyes can really see the lies that are being fed to the masses. Now that I have brought these so called real problems to the light, tell me what really matters to you!