# “Nuptials Afterglow” by Todd Leatherland

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 07 - July
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bpjzV9pMVLttBs-BW4kU5RjEa3aNsCrzXl7_SOJVxHk/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“Nuptials Afterglow” by Todd Leatherland**

****I was a wedding crasher way back, long before the movie. Those blissful unions of hope and possibility, jubilant celebrations, and heartfelt sacrosanct vows are all symbols of love’s accumulation- the consummation of all perfection. Before the work of love has really begun, relationships possess a refreshing vibrant quality that find expression in wedding ceremonies. Everybody loves a wedding.

At a country club one night, my best friend and I went to pick up my uncle who was a server there, and found ourselves in a nuptials afterglow. A wedding reception was underway, and we crossed the threshold into this world. In the ensuing surreal experience, we were immediately swept away by the wave of unbridled celebration. Instantly, we were apart of the family. Even though we were well underage and wearing thuggish clothing, we received full bar access. Actually, at one point I was behind the bar serving foam-filled glasses of beer. It was like a dream. We got the limo driver really high, and even spun records with the DJ. Our virile unabashed youth quickly became the life of the reception. Later, my uncle showed me a picture taken of a group rendition of “YMCA.” While everyone’s “Y”s were erected in perfect unison, somehow mine was leaned over to the left in horizontal fashion; but we never missed a beat. We almost tagged along with the wedding party headed to Jamaica in the morning. But instead,  a furious aunt who was left out in the parking lot all night emerged.

Some years later that aunt would remarry. I was supposed to be a groomsman but could not afford the tux. A recent excursion to Ft. Lauderdale had ended in an epic disaster. I had lost everything. Then, with tail tucked between my legs, I had returned home to southern Indiana. Returning home, but I was still homeless. For the wedding, I borrowed some really bad clothes that gave me the appearance of a hobo (which wasn’t far from reality), and pretended that everything was okay. Even though it was not about me, my presence cast a long shadow on the festivities. My homelessness was glaringly obvious. All around me my family was celebrating this joyous occasion, but I had never felt so alone. After the reception everyone went their separate ways. I found myself walking the streets of my hometown, slightly drunk, but more lost than anything else. Near some tracks I decided to hop on a train and head west, come what may- a virgin hobo. At least I was dressed the part. After a freezing, jolting, miserable five hours without cigarettes, I ended up in Nashville (south not west). By then, all of the fire was knocked out of me, and my resolve was quickly fading into a bad hangover. Defeated, I shot snipes around the railyard until a train heading back nearly hit me, its piercing airhorn bringing me back to my senses. I took the long way home. It was one of the loneliest nights ever. After twenty years, my aunt and uncle are still together.

My drinking kept progressing. When my friends Ronnie and Annie were married, their bridal theme was “This Is Your Love,” the song by Faith Hill and Tim McGraw. I engraved that in champagne glasses for their wedding gift. They were married on Lake Conroe, Texas, and I still remember the magic of that day- aside from all of the drinking, which was to excess. The next morning I woke up outside on the deck, and for some reason I immediately began walking in search of a drink. I stumbled right off the end of the deck. Just like in a cartoon… one minute the deck was there, the next I was laying at the bottom of six steps. It was so sudden I barely shattered the silence. All of my years of drunken falls had lead up to that moment. I simply slid to a half unscathed (a true drunken ninja). I helped myself to five bottles of champagne before I left; it was Sunday, after all. At the time, I saw it more as a continuation from the night before, so it wasn’t really stealing. When Ronnie finally filled in the gaps of my memory, he told me I had looked really wack on the dance floor. All I could do was stagger down the soul train line in an inebriated display. These great friends are still together and have raised a beautiful family.

At my own wedding, I married my gorgeous wife and female best friend, but I am no polygamist. From prison, in 2008, I was married by proxy and my best friend stood in and married my wife. Although I still love them both very much, the marriage was not destined to last. I have not talked to either one in years. I don’t drink anymore, though. I have four years of sobriety. I will not drink wine again until I drink it anew in my Father’s Kingdom at the wedding supper of the Lamb. (Matt. 26:29, Rev. 19:9).