# “P.E.N.” by Jesse Dains

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 12 - December
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XAYn4R7_QkekgMLYoVgYTzGN2HPjCeOzoOnTqvgmAdw/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“P.E.N.” by Jesse Dains**

We had an appointment to meet in July of ‘93. You were late. We went looking for you. I went to Cheyenne to see if you were there. I told your mom to stay in Denver in case you showed up. You were still not there. The doctor did not seem worried. He said that lots of activities were best. He was talking to your mom. I was excited and could not wait to meet you.

I took your mom to the “Mile High” flea market. We walked and walked but could not find you.

I took your mom to a “Rockies” game at “Mile High” Stadium. She ate six hot dogs with catsup, mustard, and relish, two large chili cheese nachos, a basket of curly fries, and a large soda: half Mr. Pibb, half Orange Fanta with just a little ice.

I drank a beer and then I drank one for your mom. Then I drank one for you. Then I drank one for the road.

Your mom drove home. She did not have a license yet. Don’t tell her I told you that.

Back at home in our tiny studio apartment, all of your stuff was just sitting in a corner waiting for you to show up and claim it. There was a brand sparkling new dresser and crib. The crib was complete with a Winnie the Pooh bed set and a Musical Eeyore mobile hanging from the headboard. Your dresser was full of onesies and blankies and the top was covered with diapers, wipes, bottles, powders, creams, and I don’t know the rest. There was even some sort of a milking machine for your mom and a two-way radio device called a “baby monitor”. What the hell were you going to do with that?

The apartment was so small I could stand in one corner, spit, and hit all three of the other corners. Your mom HATED it when I did that. I’ll tell you kiddo, you sure do know how to build suspense. I was losing my patience. I was about to burst with love for you and I wanted you around so I could show everyone how proud of you I was.

I took your mom up to “Pikes Peak”. We walked around all afternoon at 14,000 feet above sea level. You weren’t there. I took a picture of your mom asking a Bighorn ram for directions. He claimed he hadn’t seen you either.

Back to town. Defeated again. Back to the flea market the next day. Only this time I went to work. I took your mom with me because, well because she said I had to. I parked the van in the 15’ x 15’ space. Unloaded and set up the “E-Z-Up” tent, arranged the tables in a horseshoe shape and then began loading them up with collectible toys and action figures, boxes and boxes full of comic books and non-sport trading cards. Once that was completed, I opened the side door of the van, spread out some comforters and pillows to make your mom comfortable. That was my primary job for a few years, making your mom comfortable.

Then I went to a concession stand to get our breakfast. For your mom, I got two corndogs, a turkey leg, a basket of deep-fried dill pickle slices, and a chocolate-covered bacon strip on a stick. I got myself a breakfast taco and a beer. After I got your mom settled with her “snacks”, I turned to the aisle and found it milling with hundreds of potential victims. I mean customers. But before I could sell a single comic book, I heard a loud “sploosh” behind me. It sounded like someone had thrown a large water balloon against the side of the van. I turned to check on your mom and I guess she recognized the look on my face as quizzical.

She said, “my water just broke!”

WHAT? Her water broke? How do you break your water? She had gotten really good at breaking wind but now she’s talking about breaking water. Is that even possible? I checked my beer to make sure she hadn’t broken it too.

She noticed the look on my face hadn’t changed so she said, “the baby is coming, you idiot!” Your mom can say idiot with more affection than anyone I know.

What baby? I asked.

“Your daughter is coming!”

I looked up and down the aisle hoping to catch a glimpse of you. No luck. Your mom scootched to the edge of the back door, plopped out of the van, and calmly waddled to the nearest payphone (payphones are what we used before God gave us cellphones…).

As the situation began to dawn on me, I started grabbing and throwing things into the van regardless of the value or condition of packaging. I was tossing toys like crazy: Star Wars, Star Trek, G. I. Joe, X-men action figures, Cabbage Patch Kids and Barbie dolls. Boxes and boxes of mint and near mint comic books. Trading cards from “Garbage Pail Kids” to “Magic the Gathering” and “Marvel Universe”. All tossed into one pile in the middle of the van. Right, where your mom had been sitting when she broke her water.

This little fact would not occur to me for several hours. However, I was beginning to realize what had probably dawned on your mom twenty minutes earlier… Surrounded as we were, in one of the largest weekly flea markets in North America, by vendors and pedestrians it would be hours before our van went anywhere.

The dispatcher at the cab company refused to send her a car. He told her to call 911 and get an ambulance.

Taking her turkey leg and deep-fried pickle slices, she left me to finish packing and wait until the crowd thinned out enough to move the van. I met your mom at the hospital but you still hadn’t shown up. I guess you just weren’t in a hurry to get here… When you finally did show up, OH MY GOODNESS! You were the most beautiful creature in all of God’s creation! Just look at those tiny wrinkled feet! No wonder it took you so long to get here. I love you so much!