# “Pennies, Nickles, and Dimes” by Jeff Wager

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 01 - January
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DdGnjokmfDFIif6NIHASnb822S1gs_sLVuE25nqhRZc/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Pennies, Nickles, and Dimes” by Jeff Wager**

Ten years ago, the United States Government gave a nearly $50 billion subsidy to GM - and why? It was supposed to lower production cost, increase supply, and lower demand. It was supposed to keep GM from shutting down factories and laying people off. Political hacks told us there were only 3 viable options to help such a big company: we could subsidize the supplier, subsidize the consumer, or just let government have complete control of the industry. The hog that was easiest to sell was to subsidize the company. It is true that some subsidies might be beneficial to the whole country - even to the world - and I am in agreement with those subsidies, like subsidizing soybean farmers while trade deals are effectively being renegotiated to benefit many countries similarly; but who did it benefit to subsidize GM - and was there a better way?

We were told that GM paid off their loan and everything is happy-go-merry, but that was not entirely true. After all the shares were sold and the loan was “repaid”, the government netted a negative $11.5 billion; so who benefited? It wasn’t me, you, our brothers and sisters, Moms and Dads, or Grandma! All we got was jacked up taxes to cover the loss. Old cronies tell us it’s just pennies, nickles, and dimes. They say it’s just crumbs, but if 200 million tax-payers each give me one penny every week, I’d have 200 million pennies 52 times - that’s over $100 million per year. I don’t think that’s crumbs; and all those old cronies who keep wanting to increase our taxes - they know darn well it’s not crumbs! Of course, taxes are necessary for national functions like our military and other national things, but that’s not who it was given to.

GM got the subsidy - and then they “repaid” the loan, which turned out to be $11.5 billion less than what they were given. That does not sound like a good deal to me; and that’s not all there is to it! In addition to the subsidy, GM still profited another $50 billion over 10 years because they still shut down some of their factories, laid-off some of their upper management, and laid-off our brothers, sisters, Moms and Dads, and Grandma; so who got the benefit? It wasn’t us - and it was our money!

What really happened is our taxes were increased. Lots of kids had to eat Karo syrup instead of Aunt Jemimah just so a bunch of “Let’s raise taxes” politicians who are multi-millionaires, along with their millionaire collaborating entrepreneurs, could get richer while they keep increasing taxes so they can do it all again.

If just one company (and we have millions) - but if just one company makes $500 billion per year - and if that company pays 40% in taxes, that’s $200 billion. If their taxes are reduced by 10%, that company keeps $20 billion of their own money - and that is why our economy is booming right now - and that’s not all! By eliminating a bunch of regulations, companies save hundreds of billions of dollars per year by not having to fork it up to ghost regulating agencies who donate huge portions of those billions back to the political hacks who helped them get it - so they all get richer. I can hear them now, “Oh it’s just crumbs. Give it to us!” but what happens if we vote against tax increases?

Less taxes means each home has more money every week. Corporations have more money. We have an economic boom. More jobs are created. Raises are given. Retirement plans increase. Political hacks don’t have a reason to keep raising our taxes, and our brothers, sisters, Moms and Dads, and Grandma, don’t have to keep getting laid-off just so millionaires will keep getting richer, eating steaks, drinking $500 dollar bottles of wine and wearing $1000 suits and dresses while the people who they taxed to get the money eat hamburger helper, drink cheap beer, and wear dollar store clothes.

I absolutely am not against all subsidies. I do understand how tariffs, taxes, and subsidies can be used rightly and can be beneficial to the world and to our country - to everyone! Including Grandma. It’s happening right now in our economy; but the subsidy given to GM can never be construed as being a good deal. I don’t care if it was a conspiracy to dupe the tax-payers, or if it was stupid economic decisions made by stupid politicians, or if it was ust a poor business model. What it was is $11.5 billion that went into whose pockets? And from whose pockets?

It’s as if me, you, and everybody’s Grandma threw $50 each into a big pile - and when it added up to $11.5 billion, we just gave it to a bunch of old rich cronies who don’t care if we live or die.

So, what would have happened if we had just let GM fail and file bankruptcy, and lay-off all their workers instead of giving them a subsidy? The millionaires would retire with $40 million each instead of 60. America would still have $11.5 billion to benefit the taxpayers who paid it, and there would have been no excuse to make us pay more taxes. Smarter people with modern business models would buy out GM, upgrade and expand their factories, re-hire all those skilled laborers who were laid-off; give better insurance plans, 401 K options, and other perks. In short- the free market would have corrected itself.

Where GM failed to have the talent it takes to function in today’s market, like millions of other companies are successfully doing, we will have gotten rid of GM’s burden on our society. We would still get their vehicles - probably with newer and better upgrades at affordable prices and we would get it from better owners whose business model didn’t rely on government handouts that require increased taxes.

In closing, I’d say that tariffs (which is taxation) is good when it is designed to benefit our country while establishing comparable benefits for other countries. Internationally, when our tariffs are far lower than the tariffs other countries charge us, then we are at an economic disadvantage; and by increasing our tariffs on those other countries, it forces them to renegotiate better trade deals and to stop taxing us three times more than we tax them. It means they will adjust their tariffs on us so that they are equal or similar to those we place on them. It means that trade is fair; and all of our businesses who have international dealings, including the automobile industry, will pay lower taxes. It means they will have lower production costs. There will be an increase in supply and lower demand. Domestically, taxes can be used to benefit everyone, like having a strong military - or by subsidizing soybean farmers while we are in the middle of renegotiating international trade deals; but I think very few people out of our entire population profited anything at all off of the subsidy to GM - and the few who did were or complete government control - using tariffs to renegotiate trade deals that had us at an economic disadvantage, and the lowering of domestic taxes so that we all have more money to buy more cars and trucks - that was a viable option 10 years ago; and if the powers that be would have done that, then the economic boom we are having right now would have happened then, and with that better policy, Hillary Clinton could have been our President.