# “Rescued” by Markcus McGill

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 07 - July
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qv_AJeaOx6FaDBQEDlGlibDwog1tL0b4sxcYu_P8P4c/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**“Rescued” by Markcus McGill**

I cast the line in the air watching the bait drop in the lake. My eyes fixed on the bobber, hoping for a bite to add to our half-full five gallon bucket of bottom feeders. On one side was my grandmother, Goldie, dearly departed. Rest in peace baby girl. She was a tom-boyish southern girl, with a strong right hook and a compassionate heart. As a kid, she’d fish to help put food on the table. Now I think she did it for nostalgia. On the other side was my cousin. I can’t say he was my favorite, but I liked him well enough. He was a bit on the chubby side, while I was athletic. I was into sports, and girls were into me, and he was jealous. I always admired his maturity.

So, how did I end up in an old, wooden row boat, in the middle of a lake, fishing? Well, I was a typical rebellious teenager. I was rebellious, and my mother threw me out. I was homeless, going from home to home, sleeping on floors, sofas, and roach infested motels. I showed up at Goldie’s door right before midnight. Anybody on the property after twelve was shot. Literally. I anticipated the dinner she always cooked after church, but instead of waking up to the enchanting aroma of soul food, I was forcefully woken up, around noon, to see Goldie standing over me. She told me we were going fishing. This wasn’t a suggestion, it wasn’t voluntary, I was going fishing. I had really wanted that home-cooked meal.

It was hot. So hot, that no matter how much water you drank, you were just gonna sweat it out. We saw seagulls swooping down, taking fish from the lake, and we were hopeful. As the hot, orange-red sunset, a bird dropped from the sky into the water. As it sank, all I could think of was of nature’s beauty and the circle of life.

It was getting late. The dragon flies were out, and the light was leaving the sky. I was complaining about being starving, but Goldie wouldn’t let us head out until we caught at least one more fish. My cousin got a bite, and reeled it in. I wasn’t too impressed. I’d caught my fair share, and he was still four behind. Goldie was only on her second, and was searching for another.I told her we weren’t supposed to be the ones doing all the feeding. If she caught a fish for every time she changed bait, she’d have had more fish than me and my cousin combined. My cousin threw out a new line. I felt a tug, but decided to give the little guy a free lunch.Suddenly, it happened.

Goldie felt a bite, and stood up. My prayers were finally being answered. I was just waiting for her to reel it in, but, unfortunately, it didn’t go that way. She started having trouble so I put my arm around her to make sure she wouldn’t go overboard. She yelled at me to let go, so I did. After a quick jerk of the rod, a catfish sailed out of the water, whiskers in sight. He stared at us as he dove right back into the water. Goldie, exhausted, hollered, “boy, get this pole!”. My cousin pushed me out of the way and came for the pole. Later we found out she was talking to me. The whole boat rocked as he ran from one end of the boat to the other, and we flipped. Before I hit the water, all I could think was “thank God I didn’t wear my Jordan’s” I was an experienced swimmer, and I held my breath before I hit the water. I made sure Goldie was safe, and holding onto the side of the boat. My cousin was my second priority. He was scared. He calmed down, and let me know he couldn’t swim. I looked into Goldie’s terrified eyes, and she told me she couldn’t swim either.

I looked to the shore, intimidated by the distance, but knew what I had to do. I told Goldie I was going to take her back to the shore. I floated on my back to conserve energy. I told her to grab my waist. I kicked my feet to gain speed, and used my arms to steer.I struggled to keep a consistent flow. I was fit, but this seemed to be an almost impossible task. I kept pushing, for the sake of Goldie. We hit a natural habitat, and I was able to catch my breath. I don’t remember exactly how long the distance to the shore was, but if I had to guess, I would say a quarter mile. Goldie saw my cousin struggling, and reminded me to help him out. I swam back to the boat, and could see the shock on his face. He panicked and dunked my head under the water. I emerged from the water, and told him to stop and be cool. He kept panicking and pulling me under. I was frustrated, and after three jabs and a bloody nose, he calmed down. I felt like he was trying to drown us. After some time, I got us all back to sure, where my cousin gave me a piece of his mind. Goldie was happy that we lost the fish rather than our lives. The next time I was hungry, she told me I could have whatever I want.