# “Running Wolf” by John Naylor

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 07 - July
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HDyWyxD-pLzrlDLcMZZLjEYWVwkkDYwD6G0mIA4BqSc/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Running Wolf” by John Naylor**

When you look at wolves they’re much different in person than what we see in our minds. They’re not domesticated. They’re predators and providers. You know, that being said I’d say it’s a little strange that we haven’t heard more nightmares reflecting identity as a prisoner with a wolf mentality. There’s an old saying. Maybe you’ve never heard it before. Or maybe you did, but it was only in the movie “Training Day”. A great movie. If you’ll check out a similar movie called “Street Kings'', you'll like it too. I saw many ads in the last “Prison Legal News” I read. One said “Run with the Wolf”. Apparently it’s paralegals, or ex-con jailhouse lawyers. That’s not what got me though. It was the pricing. Wow, they’re expensive! What if it was hourly but not a lot necessarily to develop it? Still very high prices! Does anyone have an idea on how long the wait is for an innocent project to respond? I can tell you, it’s in the years. I knew a guy who got some correspondence accepting him. Elation, then sadness. The state got rid of his physical evidence. If I recall correctly, it was a conviction of rape based on alleged evidene of blood type. Old science, no DNA. He’s mentally ill. He couldn’t even file a proper Habeas Corpus. Because he lost his mind. Thought it was ticking down time like a device on a cartoon. So he waited five years hoping, only to have his hopes crushed. He’s old. He has health problems. He filed a “D.N.R.” Which means “Do not resuscitate”. He wants to die naturally. It’s his out. With substandard health care, he may not last much longer. I’ve seen officers ask what the sign means. Some aren’t aware of the existence of a “D.N.R” being filed. Others are new employees who aren’t familiar with it. Time crawls in some ways in prison. How much longer must I wait, I wonder. I know that’re busy. Everyone’s busy. Case loads aren’t easy at any time though realistically. Hold on to your faith. God is faithful. He works in his time. He’s more concerned with our character than our comfort. All through the media I see things. Jeanie Brock wrote me to let me know she was praying for me and my family. She wanted me to re-read Joshua as she was reading it. She kept saying in her letters “God will see you through” in every letter. I asked for full, active faith prayers. Now I think back to singing to those elderly folks. We made memories. Some never get or only rarely get visits. Then they may forget them. Very sad. At times, I think of invisible baby while waiting in lines in prison. I bounce a little like I’m burping a baby. People look at me odd. I explain, invisible baby. See? Well I could chance petting that fox. Just as long as it’s chill and doesn’t awake the invisible baby. I’m not speaking out to condemn the invisible baby or the fox, just being a realist or something.