# “Sisters” by John Naylor

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cmnVrPl3r_X10DFeZJutX13NS7M6wBhkfDcLaG54DLg/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Sisters” by John Naylor**

D.O.C. numbers are issued to every prisoner who goes to any state prison, at least in Indiana. My number is older: #128761. I remember guys who used to figure if I was in R.D.C. with them. The “reception diagnostics center.” The pre prison, prison. People say a wealthy family owned it. You go through it everytime you go to prison. The title can feel somewhat offensive. They make it as much like as some P.O.W. camp as possible when you walk in. To strip away your identity and to get you to focus on submitting to all of the orders they give. Dehumanizing as possible. I’ve been in prison more often than not in my adult life. I’m a 35 year old white male. I’m pretty fit for a prisoner. I didn’t let myself go. Life is everyday. And in the journey of life and faith I try to never go through a season without making some difference. I’m about 6’2”. Brown hair, blue eyes. I make some friendly acquaintances as I travel through life. And now I’ve a touch of grey on my chin. From the stress lawyers give me, I often say. I pray for grace as I struggle through difficult seasons in life. I got some bad experiences getting to know other prisoners. I’ve never had occasion to hear another prisoner call my deeds evil. The state railroads people. Only 3% go to trial. Meanwhile I was left abandoned by appellate attorneys. I write innocence projects. Wait longer and longer. Waiting since my 6-2004 arrest for my release. Prisoners always seem to have a strong opinion on what someone should do that’s a negative approach. Most don’t have constructive advice on appeals or some wise tidbit about how to make legal work easy. A lot will accept their actions and take whatever little play the state of Indiana gives. I get some emotional support from my sisters in Christ. From Harrison county jail in southern Indiana, R.D.C. and Pendleton Correctional Facility. People do win appeals in Indiana at times. Visits, letters and cards. Momma has been the only sister who came to see me. Any efforts are appreciated. I like to write. I get to say hello on the phone here and there. Truth is as someone who grew up in the church is that our Sisters put more time into the efforts of service into the church than men. Fact is that we may see prisons multiply were it not for the influence of sisters in Christ. There’s social benefits for society like a lower crime rate. I speak out to you all. By their fruits you will recognize them. When life is good we can take their community service for granted. Even the efforts in our personal lives in all the ways they help us. Sisters we are eternal and connected through Christ throughout eternity. I never had a sister as a sibling. I had the church. Putting me on Administrative Segregation won’t change that. Sisters keep serving. Brothers please thank a sister today or this week at least. Because thanks matters. And I believe I am speaking for men who aren’t speaking up as well. Thank you.