# “Small with a Lion Heart” by Jamale Douglas

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mm3QD_ZelZ7x6DUkxph4Anr2eoNx5b-LN2u15y-NNkE/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**“Small with a Lion Heart” by Jamale Douglas**

The only sound to be heard on this crisp, sunny cloud-free day was the cool breeze blowing through the tall grass talks that stretched for miles and miles and miles. This was surrounded by mountains with peaks so high that no mountain climber would ever be able to reach the tops. Two big rabbits and four babies not too far off sat in this field, gazing upon this luscious grass. The mother rabbit sat there watching her children play peacefully. The four babies fought, rolled, and wrestled as they playfully nibbled each other’s ears and feet. The father was not too far off, searching for berries and other edibles for the evening and night meals.

The mother’s name was Rita. She was a strong, white, fluffy hare who had a small brown spot behind her right ear. The poppa rabbit’s name was Lionel. He was powerful and twice as big as the mother and was a shiny black hare. The four kids were Bo, Roy, Ken, and Ra-Ra; they were all boys. Bo was the most courageous of them all and took all the weight when any of them got in trouble. He was the oldest and smartest and took great concern for his younger brothers. Bo was dark brown. Roy was the second oldest and was a reddish-orange color and was very quiet and observant of his surroundings, though playful at times. Ken was the third oldest, and he was the one who was smart and didn’t like to listen even though he thought he knew everything. Roy was a pain in the butt and was a dark grey color. Ra-Ra was the youngest and smallest, but he was the most aggressive one of them all. He was a very quick learner and put his all into everything he did. He was a golden-brown color with fur like silk.

High up on a branch protruding out of a mountain cliff edge, an eagle sat watching with a keen eye. His prey could have been directly in front of him: how clear the image was of the unseen rabbits below. He made low, eering sounds in his throat as his mouth salivated. At the thought of his talons ripping fresh flesh apart to devour, he had a wingspan of almost 6 feet and a huge, powerful head that complemented his powerful bod. With a dive at about 90 miles per hour and with a beak as sharp as tacks, he had feathers so blindingly white and feathers so dark golden-brown that it looked like he came straight from the heavens. He was the magnificent golden eagle, also called the Bird of Prey. In one swift moment, the eagle flapped his great wings and soared into the air. He made a wide arc to be at the back of the Mother Rabbit and began to dive, gliding gracefully and becoming a speeding missile. Rita sensed something wrong and looked around then up. When she saw the diving eagle, her eyes bulged with fear and she screamed, “AHHHH! Run kids! Run kids!” Lionel jetted back with lightning speed as everyone took off together.

They ran with their hearts beating like drums at a Rio festival and their legs pumping since their lives depended on it. One wrong move would mean death. As the eagle became closer, he smiled to himself at the satisfaction of a hot meal. Unbeknowingly, Lionel tricked up his tail. As the eagle’s shadow appeared above them, Lionel yelled, “Split in twos and run, run, run!” Rita and Roy ran to the right. Ken and Ra-Ra ran straight. Bo and Lionel ran to the left. They all were very fast and powerful. This confused the eagle, and he had to make a minute decision about who to go after. He decided to chase the dark grey one and the golden-brown one since they both chose to go straight. He was closing in as he stretched his talons to grab his prey, but the rabbits had a spirit to live. As Ken and Ra-Ra ran, they heard, “Errrr!” As the eagle closed in, they split like a block of wood cut with an axe! To the eagle’s astonishment, he locked his talons into a death grip and filled his talons with nothing but grass and dirt. Ken and Ra-Ra regrouped. Ken tripped, but Ra-Ra kept running as he told himself, “I can’t keep running all my life. I have to fight back and face my fear.” So he slowed down and waited for Ken to catch up. Just as the eagle was catching up, he opened his talons and closed in around Ken. To his side, Ra-Ra smashed into the side of the eagle’s head! As he tumbled away, the eagle lost flight and crashed into the ground. Ra-Ra and Ken then escaped safely and made it home to everyone else. They talked for hours about what happened as they calmed down Ken who expressed an unconditional love for Ra-Ra for saving his life. Ra-Ra surprised himself for overcoming his fear to save his brother’s life. Fear can be overcame: you just have to be strong and face it.