# “Sisters” by Martin Vicario

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ymDUGIO6Aa1ISVNfSuRvsG879vTd5Z95GosmF9NpJtQ/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Sisters” by Martin Vicario**

I was up on the third level of the stadium looking down onto the stage as my Sister walked across it to receive her Bachelor’s Degree. I was feeling proud, “hey that’s my Sister out there!” More so, I was very happy to see my parents beholding their offspring bringing to completion an undertaking that demanded so much sacrifice. My sister was raising three children, working numerous part-time jobs, and carrying a full-time load of academics --- not an easy thing to do. Her day of ecstasy had finally arrived. She was now officially joined to the professional world, license at hand. Among Hispanic/Latino families, having a child complete a university education is profoundly rare and emotionally charged, particularly when the recipient is first-generation American. The achievement is shared by the family; it catapults all members to a higher plane, and with more intensity to continue reaching for the dream. At that moment, all I could do was stare at her shining and glowing with confidence. She gracefully descended the platform to reunite with the rest of her classmates. I was overwhelmed by the moment, and I drifted into a dream state of reminiscence…

Ever since I can remember, my Sister wanted to be a teacher. She excelled in math, linguistics, management, but her knack was teaching. I think it was the late 1960s when she went out into the neighborhood and conscripted the neighborhood kids to participate in a beauty pageant. You know, for the girls. The boys were responsible with setting up the stage and all that background stuff. Did I mention the fanfare took place in our backyard? This was during the days of no computers or cellphones; videocassette recorders did not even exist. Nevertheless, there was something wholesome and determined about childhood back then that drove children to socialize and make their own fun. The thing about my Sister, she knew how to get things done. She was thunder! Once decided, you were not going to stop her. I have learned that tactfulness does not have to be loud. My sister is innately striking and engaging---no drama needed. Her refined character announces her presence and continues to resonate long after she has departed. The neighborhood pageant was a smash! It was the first victory of her achievements that I can recall as a child. My Sister was not just my Sister, she was my big Sister, and later in my life a motivational influence that propelled me beyond to graduate school.

After the graduation ceremony, one by one, family and friends met at our parents' home, the headquarters of the family. Eventually, the guest of honor arrived and we continued to celebrate her. The moment went by quickly, and my Sister departed with a few of her classmates. Friends and extended family were also departing, and slowly the house fell into silence. I fund my parents in the living room relaxing in their chairs, one for grandma and the other for grandpa. I stared at them for a long while, they were at peace. They had accomplished one of the most difficult tasks of parenting, and I believe it is the same for all parents. I made my move and walked into the living room kissing my mother goodnight and then kissing my father on his head. As I was walking out, I noticed my sister’s high school graduation photograph, and I thought, “you did it, you really did it. You are not a teacher.” And then I whispered, “I am proud of you.” I was the last to leave the house… the night was cool and the stars were burning bright. What an excellent night to make dreams come true.