# “Swivel Neck” by Jeff Wager

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 01 - January
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XXpUMr6BuLUVGWxFeo1sJqh3IKd3olausYoRPd0iSMI/edit?pli=1
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Swivel Neck” by Jeff Wager**

An intelligence of diabolic proportions stared through blind eyes. It whispered as it swiveled the neck of another. “Have other gods before Him. Bow to the image. Vainly use His name. Dishonor the Sabbath day. Dishonor your parents. Kill the assurance in the fingers you hold. Adulterate. Steal her hope. Blame it on someone else, and lust to your heart’s content.” But the eyes were veiled. His ears were stuffed. The fallen state of humankind was taking its toll. Rationalization and justification for self-gratification twisted reality. Beautiful images were unknowingly, but destructively perceived while death’s whisper seemed soft and convincing. What was actually said was self-filtered and falsely heard as saying, “I’m living! God made me this way, so it must be good. I don’t care what anyone else thinks. She can just get over it. It’s not my fault. I like what I like and that’s all there is to it -- and besides, I’m a good guy and I don’t mean any harm. I’m faithful.” To him, this lie was convincing -- but not to her.

She felt the ugliness of fallen humanity. She perceived the hurt and pain caused by a complete violation of the commandments of God, but she too heard the whisper as it swiveled the neck of another. “Have other gods before Him. Bow to the image. Vainly use His name. Dishonor the Sabbath day. Dishonor your parents. Kill the assurance in the fingers you hold. Adulterate. Steal his hope. Blame it on someone else, and lust to your heart’s content.” But the eyes were veiled. Her ears were stuffed. The fallen state of humankind was taking its toll. Rationalization and justification for self-gratification twisted reality. Beautiful images were unknowingly, but destructively perceived while death’s whisper seemed soft and convincing. What was actually said was self-filtered and falsely heard as saying, “Look at that bitch! She thinks she’s all that! And what the hell is he doing? He’s staring at her. He’s a bastard! Screw them both. I’m better than that. I’m going to start putting other guys on a pedestal. I am an independent, and faithful, good person who doesn’t deserve any of this. I am a victim, and I’ll show them!” To her, this lie was convincing -- but not to the girl walking by.

The girl walking by felt the ugliness of humanity. She perceived the lust in his eyes and the resentment from the girl by his side. It was all caused by a complete violation of the commandments of God; but she too heard the whisper as it swiveled the neck of another, “Have other gods before Him. Bow to the image. Vainly use His name. Dishonor the Sabbath day. Dishonor your parents. Kill the assurance in the fingers they hold. Adulterate. Steal their hope. Blame it on someone else, and steal their hope. Blame it on someone else, and lust to your heart’s content;” but the eyes were veiled. Her ears were stuffed. The fallen state of humankind was taking its toll. Rationalization and justification for self-gratification twisted reality. Beautiful images were unknowingly, but destructively perceived while death’s whisper seemed soft and convincing. What was actually said was self-filtered and falsely heard as saying, “Look at how he’s looking at me. He thinks I’m hot. I’m gonna twitch my ass for him. I love it when guys lust for me. It makes me feel like a goddess. I don’t know why she’s acting like her feelings are hurt. If she was a real woman, he wouldn’t be looking at me. It’s not my fault, so screw her. She’ll get over it. She’ll get over it.” To the girl walking by, this lie was convincing -- but not to the intelligence of diabolic proportions who was looking through their blinded eyes.

A demonic being stared through blinded eyes. It whispered as it swiveled the neck of another, “Have other gods before Him. Bow to the image. Vainly use His name. Dishonor the Sabbath day. Dishonor your parents. Kill the assurance in fingers that hold. Adulterate. Steal their hope. Blame it on someone else, and lust to your heart’s content.” But the eyes were veiled. Its ears were stuffed. The fallen state of humankind was taking its toll. Rationalization and justification for self-gratification twisted reality, Beautiful images were knowingly and destructively perceived while death’s whisper seemed soft and convincing. What was actually said was self-filtered and falsely heard as saying, “Ego, lust, and anger are all justifiable. God is the One who made you as you are. Eat, drink, and be merry. You will not surely die.” To the demonic being, this lie was convincing -- but not to God.

God, the Creator of all that is, looks at all that is, looks at us with loving eyes. He is the whisper deep in your heart as He swivels the neck of another, “Have no other god but me. Do not make nor bow to any false image. Do not use my name in vain. Honor the Sabbath day to keep it Holy. Honor your parents. Don’t murder. Don’t commit adultery. Don’t steal. Don’t bear false witness, and don’t run around lusting for things that belong to others,” His eyes see clearly. His ears are open. The fallen state of humankind has been attended to by Him. Rationalization and justification for self-gratification is an undesirable reality. Beautiful images are knowingly and constructively perceived while love’s whisper comes soft and convincing. What He actually said is God-filtered and is truly heard as saying, “I love you. You know me as YeHowshua in Hebrew, and Iesous in Greek. I am Emmanuel (God with us). I bore myself, virgin-born. You know me in physical form as the Son of God, Jesus the Christ, in English. I paid for the cost of all sin (a debt you never could have paid on your own), and then I rose again to life so that you may live as well. I made you like this so that you can choose for yourself. You get to pray and talk to me, or not. You get to read and to study your very own bible; and you get to choose to have faith and to live as I have said, or not. There is good and evil, There is light and darkness, There is heaven, and there is terror in a burning hell. I am God and I love you, and there is a devil who wants you to die -- but you must choose for yourself.”