# “Sleeping Dog on Elderly Man” by Bobby Parris

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 02 - February
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U1GtqgQ-maDTMLepfUXPqc_QOU8bZQ6H05Zkdx7Txv8/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2020

**“Sleeping Dog on Elderly Man” by Bobby Parris**

A warm and sunny day in Dublin, Ireland. An elderly man by the name of Bobby October, age 57. Born on June 23, 1961. Was there on vacation from Los Angeles, California. He had planned to be there for only 2 months. But then while in town one day, he comes across a beautiful woman by the name of Sabrina Suave. She comes out of the general store with her friend Christel Berry. He walks over to introduce himself with his dog, Amanda, which is a golden retriever. He gets up to Sabrina and Christel and says “hi” to both of them. They say “hi” back to him. He offers to help them with their groceries. They accept his offer, and he starts grabbing bags for them. As he is helping them, he starts talking to Sabrina. In the process of helping them, Bobby starts to have a seizure, right in the middle of town. Sabrina and Christel stop what they are doing to help him until the paramedics show up. Christel tells everyone to back up and give him some space. Amanda sits beside her owner because she knows something is wrong. As the paramedics arrive, they make way for them to come through. They get Bobby on the stretcher and get him into the ambulance. Amanda jumps in as they are locking him into place. They try to tell her to get out. Bobby is able to come to long enough to tell them she is his service dog. So they let her stay close to him. Sabrina hops in the front seat to make sure everything is okay. As the paramedics are checking his vitals, Christel says that she will meet them at the hospital. A few minutes later, they are off toward the hospital with their lights just flashing away. So it takes them no time at all to get there. They get him admitted in a room with Amanda by his side. He ends up having to stay in the hospital for two months. Every night that he’s there, Amanda sleeps at his feet in the bed. Sabrina and Christel keep checking in on him while he is there. Two days before he’s supposed to be released, Sabrina comes into his room in a beautiful red dress with yellow daisies on it. She brings with her some flowers and balloons saying “Get Well Soon”. As Sabrina walks to the other side of the room, Amanda raises up to let Sabrina pet her. As Sabrina pets her, she lays the flowers and balloons down on a table by the bed. Amanda lays back down at his feet and Sabrina gives Bobby a kiss on the right cheek. She asks him if he has eaten yet. He says no. And might I say, you look very ravishing today. Sabrina says thank you and blushes. She proceeds to tell him that Christel is bringing homemade chicken casserole, sweet peas, mashed potatoes, and cornbread. And some food for Amanda as well. While they are waiting for the food to arrive, they start talking about each other. Bobby finally decides to ask Sabrina out. She is shocked by the question. After a while, she says “yes” and they start to kiss. After they finish kissing, Christel walks into the room with their dinner. As they start to dig in, Bobby stops them before they dig in and asks for a prayer for the meal, friendship, and getting released soon. So they finally pray. After praying, they begin to eat, and Christel asks if anything has changed since she last saw him. Both Sabrina and Bobby smile at the same time without each other knowing. As they finish eating, doctors walk in and ask how everyone is doing. Everyone says that they are just fine. They tell Mr. October:

“Since nothing has changed since we admitted you into the hospital, that we are going to release you early.” All three say thank you. The doctors start to leave the room to get the release paperwork. While they are gone, they start unhooking him from everything and get him changed. Twenty minutes later, they are walking out of the hospital. Christel gives everyone a ride to Bobby’s vehicle. As they get close to his vehicle, they notice that he has a 2019 Dodge Ram 1500. Everyone sets out to help Bobby load everything into the truck. Then they start heading out to his sod house with Sabrina in the passenger seat and Amanda in the backseat, with Christel following behind.