# “Spirit of the American Republic” by Jeff Wagner

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_KPOQVLxplE2SET99QaNQ4rO4Nd_MF10EAEyzCfXbVM/edit
Program: Picture Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Spirit of the American Republic” by Jeff Wagner**

The American Republic is a nation of many races of people from different environmental, linguistic, and cultural backgrounds. Every one of these people have a family history, or personal experience pursuing a life within an American atmosphere, an American culture of constitutional freedoms. George Perkins and Barbara Perkins edited a collection of writings by American authors, “The American Tradition in Literature” eleventh edition 2007, in which we clearly see that many of our forefathers, such as Thomas Jefferson in “The Declaration of Independence” (259), pledged their “lives, fortunes, and sacred honor to the protection of divine Providence;” indeed ”... to the Supreme Judge of the World…” (261-262). They wrote to share and to establish the American spirit. In their day, the writings of Jonathon Edwards, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Paine, and Thomas Jefferson influenced the American Spirit in a Conservative and individualistic, pro-American, God-respecting manner; however, today (as in their time) those mannerisms are challenged by some.

Conservative and individualistic mannerisms were long ago penned by powerful thinkers who have influenced the American Spirit. For example, on July 8, 1741, Jonathon Edwards delivered a sermon titled “Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God” (168). He stresses his conservative and individualistic thinking by highlighting our duty not to falter from, but to adhere to, the traditional administration of God’s word. In so doing, we know we are to individually place our complete confidence in the mercy and grace of God who holds us up by this own good pleasure, Edwards reminds us that and, if not, then “... if God should let you [individually] go, you would immediately sink and swiftly descend and plunge into the bottomless gulf…” (173). Certainly, we are free to serve God without oppression in America. Edwards assures us that God will be held accountable, by God, to do so. This conservative and individualistic freedom, and accountability, is certainly a pro-American position.

The pro-American attitude, ingrained in so many writings of our founding fathers, has influenced the American Spirit. In Part III of “Common Sense: Thoughts on the State of American Affairs” (242), Thomas Paine denounces a pro-British view in favor of a pro-American position. America, in Paine’s writing, should be its own individual country. Appealing to the common sense of everyday Americans, Paine insists that our long distance from England requires us to think of our own American interests. “This new world,” he said, “hath been the asylum for the persecuted lovers of civil and religious liberty from every part of Europe” (244). He points out that the majority of Americans were of non-English races of people from various parts of eastern countries, with one commonality -- America. Paine appeals to American common sense, “even the distance at which the Almighty hath placed England and America is a strong natural proof that the authority of one over the other was never a design of heaven” (245). Writing that it is God’s will for America to be its own country (and its people therefore to be all American) certainly inspires a pro-American, as well as God-respecting, mindset.

The God-respecting influence of many early American writers is the backbone of American attitude. This is seen in the writings of Jonathon Edwards and Thomas Paine, but also indirectly or directly in writings of many other American writers. For example, Benjamin Franklin uses analogies, albeit indirectly and through a fictional character, Richard Saunders to express Biblical wisdom we would find in the book of Proverbs. In preface to “Poor Richard’s Almanack” (222), Franklin asks “Father Abraham” (224) what he thinks of the burden of heavy taxation. “Father Abraham” (224) responds within Biblical wisdom as he warns against such sins as “idleness,” “pride,” and “sloth” (224). Such embraced sin is taxation upon our own selves, he says, and the debt is tremendously burdenson. Americans in Franklin’s day would easily recognize the Biblical inference, “however, let us hearken to good advice, and something new may be done for us; ‘God helps them that help themselves,’ as poor Richard says, in his Almanack of 1733” (244). Adding to this God-respecting attitude in a more direct manner, Thomas Jefferson writes that Americans have “unanimous[ly]” declared in “The Declaration of Independence” (259), that “... all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights” (259). Jefferson points out that Americans “appeal is to the Supreme Judge of the World” (261). America’s God-respecting attitude, the backbone of the American Spirit was the majority attitude back then, and it is the majority attitude today; but like the British who lost their fight against America, there are challengers who are facing that same loss today.

Anti-conservative, anti-American, and anti-Christ[ian] factions merge together in their attack on the American dream. Liberals and humanist conservatives who have been duped by the humanistic god of science, along with socialists, communists and various godless factions, have dedicated their lives to perverting The Spirit of the Law. The Spirit of the Law determined freedom of religion to mean that we could, and would, worship God without oppression. Perverters of the law twist freedom of religion and liberty to mean something else entirely. They teach their children, and yours, to have non-Biblical behaviors, up to and including sex, to please themselves in any manner they choose without restraint, and to worship any god of their own making. They anger against America’s Spirit against America’s Christian God. With their cultist mentality, they follow leaders who would, like Barack Obama, stand in front of the American news media with near orgasmic delight to say, “We are no longer a Christian nation.” Of course, the American Spirit metaphorically slapped him, his potential successor, Hillary, and every other Presidential candidate who thought to eliminate America’s Christian biblical standards. Nationwide, the American Spirit took positions of power from those dissenting, un-American factions.

This nation of many races of people from many different environmental, linguistic, and cultural backgrounds has recognized the factions who have developed and cultivated contrary attitudes toward the American Spirit. The contrary factions who would spit on our God are like cockroaches in our society. The silent majority has risen up to stomp on them. We are a conservative, individualistic, American Republic. We have common sense. We will retain our liberty, as heaven designed commitment to Providential design. All liberals duped by the humanistic god of science, along with socialists, communists, and various anti-Christian factions will lose their fight against the American Spirit. Their attitude has done nothing but create animosity, division, and hate; but the armies of God have unleashed. We, with the American Spirit, have appealed “to the Supreme Judge of the World” (261).