# “Sisters” by James Bauhaus

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 10 - October
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/162IiWZEQIRmTR4nzTNanU9XNr5LEj0PfHaJo6utuk_U/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“Sisters” by James Bauhaus**

They are a blessing. Every inmate should have at least one. If an inmate treats them well enough, most of them will fall for almost any scheme. Sisters are reliable. They usually have jobs, so they are a good source of free money. Often they will actually believe whatever story an inmate dreams up to extort, extra emergency money from them. Best, even when an inmate gets caught in his web of lies, it only takes a few thousand smooth words, on the phone, preferably, because inmates are lazy, to trick them back to square one.

And it’s not just sisters. It’s also moms, aunts, grannies, and female cousins that serve as inmate jackpots. Wives are not so gullible:They know you too well. But, none of these criminal youngsters have wives, so they don’t even count. Wives aren’t related anyway, which is one of the two required criteria for exploitation: female and related to her extorter.

Any straights who may read this may be asking themselves, “Why would inmates need to lie to female relatives when they could get money from them honestly by simply asking for it?” The answer is of course, to buy dope. What else is there, in prison, to buy except dope? Nothing; just crappy, double and triple priced junk food. A young punk can only eat so much junk food, but he is a bottomless pit when it comes to smoking dope, sniffing “glue”, snorting powder and shooting crap into his veins with a sharpened basketball needle. Almost all of them are exceedingly dumb, having been let to run away from school by age 12, especially the minorities. If there is a race toward illiteracy, it began when outraged parents took their children' advice and outlawed paddling behinds in school. High school achievement peaked in 1972. Each generation after that has been measurably stupider and stupider. The race to the bottom is nowhere near complete, but it looks bad. The cops’ “war” on drugs succeeded in filling prisons by emptying schools. The politicians clap heartily as their numbskull front-man flaunts his own illiteracy and stupidity. Were it not for his daddy’s plenty-millions to squander, he too would be in prison like me, watching these ID-iot(Instinctually Driven) youngsters gasp and wheeze, smoking the worst trash dope that has ever been. The more that they cough their guts up, the better that they think their dope is, because all those high pressure waves on their oxygen-deprived brains makes them think that they are rushing. They are rushing, but not to being high so much as rushing towards passing out.

Today, the cops locked up everyone of 20,000 individuals in their Okie prisons because of 3 “fights” in 3 prisons that left one murdered. The media smooth talkers will say “Gangs!” did this, just as the cops told them, but it actually was “drugs” that did this. Specifically, drug debts caused this to happen. I saw it coming for 2 weeks, begging for a sliver of soap to shower with. I never give dopies my soap. When they beg me for my toilet paper, I tell them, “Use your sheet.” Many of them have even sold their sheet for a soap. Dopies get very hungry when that little crumb of “ice” wears off. A lot of these dopies are stealth homosexuals: only their dope-man knows for sure which ones are gay because they like it and which ones are gay because they want more dope. I said “want” because none of these dopies are real addicts. This excuse should be denied them because real addicts get sick from withdrawal. These dopies can’t lie-up or suck enough to get addicted. There simply is not enough dope compared to the grasping hands trying to get it. These dopies simply suffer from mere impulse control and a lack of willpower. You could take it all away tomorrow, and nothing would happen beyond them maybe sweeping the floor to smoke that, or licking their paraphernalia, like a dog on its genitals.

When they scuffle-up their last hit, most of them turn to all the little rituals and preparations involved in scribbling on themselves with permanent graffiti. Nothing scares off their sex maniac dope creditors better than covering themselves with skulls, spiderwebs and grim reapers! Even if it saves them from having to swallow one time, it’s worth it! They’re even tattooing their faces now! This is scary; for its stupidity, that is.

So, now, because a group of people finally saw through the lies and decided “No more!”, a dopies got killed and the cops are ransacking each of their 10,000 cages. Thank you, you stupid dopies. I hate it, but I applaud your moms, aunts, grannies, cousins and sisters!