# “Take a Leap” by Cambren Thomas

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 11 - November
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YVz6J7BFbF4HQp0GBzcUf6xj6pPUeGA26Ip5EYS228Q/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2016

**“Take a Leap” by Cambren Thomas**

****In the Bible, faith is paramount. It is both a constant theme throughout the biblical narrative and an essential element of understanding in many stories and underlying lessons. Isaiah 7:9 says, “If you are not firm in faith, you will not be firma at all” (ESV). This verse stands out, for me, because it touches on faith as a key part of my spirituality and connection with God. I had to take a leap of faith, and be firm in my faith, to finally and truly believe that God is real--and to trust him. This faith has helped me continue to stand firm against the oppression, desertion, and persecution of jail, court, and the prison world. On a wider scope, this verse on faith applies directly to the aforementioned legal system as well.

I strongly question the firmness of faith, and effectiveness, of the legal system--not simply in terms of spirituality, or trust and adherence to God and His divine will for society. I also question the confidence and integrity of the system to believe in and help the people they so willingly condemn. Can our legal system take a leap of faith onto the so-called “criminals”? Can they remove the labels and give us better chances to regain our livelihood?

I remember, as a youth, when faith was an integral part of our society. It was part of the home, schools, television, sports, the government, and the justice system. It was even part of the prisons, in the beginning, as well. A penitentiary was not simply a storehouse for lost souls: it was where men and women with legal troubles were sent to repent, or become penitent, and transition into something more substantial to humanity.

Today, things are definitely far from this initial concept. From the courts to behind the bars, and in my experience as a first timer, I have seen and felt nothing but flawed, biased, vapid, and inept treatment of the innocent and guilty alike. Inmates here are nothing more than nameless dollar signs. Instead of taking a leap of faith on those who can be rehabilitated, or thoroughly investigating cases and legitimate concerns, enormous amounts of time are passed out here like Halloween candy. Innocence and fairness are not fought for; it is something that comes as randomly as winning the lottery. Bond, here, is a figment of one’s imagination. Plea deals and probation are the flavor of the day. We are all just packaged, barcoded, catalogued, and warehoused with hardly any programs or outlets through which we can uplift and excel. If we are all so tained, so monstrous, so mentally skewed, I cannot understand why more steps (or leaps) are not being taken to get to the root of our problems. Why not use our courts and correctional facilities for, I don’t know, correction!

Our legal system is destroying and manipulating men and women of all ages, and also tearing apart whole families from the group up, for nothing! I know it and have experienced it first hand. The woman I loved was turned against me by the prying hands of the legal system, for their benefit and neither hers nor mine. I will never forget reading the surprising and scathing letter that she was coached to write for my sentencing. In it, she summated that I “did not need to be on the outside with the good citizens of the world.” Really? Is this the world we live in? A man with no record, no history of psychological issues or violence, locked away and excommunicated with no inquiry as to what went wrong, as if anything actually went wrong or truly happened for that matter. What is a good citizen anyway?

I may now e a convicted fellow, but I am comprised of the same traits that we all collectively possess. We are all capable of greatness, and we are all capable of great missteps into disaster. “Good citizens,” huh? I’ll give you “free” citizens in comparison to me because no one is complete good...or perfect. Chaos has not ceased in the world because of my imprisonment or that of any one of my peers. I honestly fear the outside world more than I do my cell. This country--this world--is going mad! I fear for my daughter, her mother, my family, for everyone! Our news is filled to the brim with accounts of our steady downward spiral into calamity. Should we be building bigger prisons and locking more people away, or having massive think tanks to better understand what is so wrong?

Modern society may portray unbiased, tolerant, or P.C. views for many things now, but I realize that any are still highly prejudiced to the convict. We have taken great leaps with technology, gay rights, and medical marijuana, and so why can’t we take a giant leap for the proper processing, sentencing, and rehabilitation of prisoners? Why can’t my V.A. peers and I receive parole anymore? Why can’t our states take a chance and give us more worthwhile opportunities to redeem ourselves? Is it really such a “Neil Armstrong-sized” leap of faith to believe that people can change?