# “The Balance Life: Helping Out” by Martin Vicario

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 07 - July
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RnVIp_yUR3LrcryB0RE6ZyoIZyVKDBuKdidarJEsRNc/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2019

**“The Balance Life: Helping Out” by Martin Vicario**

Consequently, what is the meaning of *helping out*? And why do we do it? Is it something innate, i.e., do we feel the need to “help out” our neighbor, or is it an opportunity to exploit someone? There are two words that best define *helping*: aiding and serving. Providing aid may be part of your job and you receive payment for doing so. But serving is something completely different, because in most cases there is no payment involved. Keep in mind, helping out is a choice. It is a decision, a thought, before it becomes an action of good will. When I think about serving, my mind goes to Martha of the Bible attending the Lord as he preached to the congregation. The other is the Good Samaritan in Luke 10:25-37. He provided help to a traveler who had been beaten up and robbed by thieves. What interests me about this story is the traveler was passed-up by two religious individuals, a priest and a Levite, individuals that hold a title and receive money in return for attending the Lord’s people. On the contrary, Samaritans were looked down upon by religious legalism; in essence, the Samaritan would be the least likely to help out a Jew, but that is exactly what happened. The person least likely to help is the one that helped the most. The Samaritan bandaged the beaten down traveler, took him to an Inn, and paid his expenses until he was able to continue on his own. What are the chances of that happening today? Not many, I presume. But it is possible! The Samaritan had no motivation for gain. The traveler had nothing, as he’d been beaten and robbed. It would have been cheaper just to let him die on the road. The story of the Good Samaritan gives no reason as to why he helped out the injured traveler. Who was the Good Samaritan? Why did he feel so moved to do the right thing?

Another story, actually many stories about the men and women that gave up their life for the sake that others may live. For as long as I live, I will never forget that day, September 11, 2001. While people were running away from the confusion to save their lives, others were running towards the fire. It is the most powerful example that comes to mind concerning service. When it comes to helping out, there aren’t any rules. If a person needs help, then help them. Consider the current situation in the country, the government has not yet agreed on a budget, and 800K people are not receiving their wages...this would be a good time to help out a neighbor, especially a public servant. Currently, I have two nephews serving in the public capacity. One is in the Border Patrol, and the other is in the Coast Guard. You might ask, “Do your nephews aide or serve?” They do both! They will search for you in the desert, or jump from a helicopter into the ocean to save your life. These young men and women are going to do their service regardless of the current situation. I have no doubt that someone out there is helping out our service men and women.

The Good Samaritan was moved in his heart to help, but why? Had something similar happened to him or someone he loved, a friend, a family member? There aren’t any rules in helping people, or feeling empathy. The question is, would you extend “helping out” to a prisoner, a prostitute, a wino laid out on the road? What about someone who has hurt you? Would you feed them and give them something to drink? Is there a motivation to your charity? Does it need to be recognized by the media or a Special Interest group? So we come full circle, what is the meaning of *helping out*? Only you can answer the question, but I assure you that it begins in the heart.