# “‘Apologies’, I am venting” by Marcell Cobb

Last Updated: February 21, 2021 4:48 AM
Month: 03 - March
Original Document (Google Doc): https://docs.google.com/document/d/11eM8OzA31kkV44e9yMZdVK5M2y-J7QNlNhwxCsYGPHw/edit
Program: Word Theme Essay
Suggest for blog: No
Suggest for program mailing: No
Year: 2018

**“‘Apologies’, I am venting” by Marcell Cobb**

I am state property, enemy of the state, menace to society. These are labels forced upon individuals who are incarcerated and who have made the mistake of breaking the wealthy’s laws mostly due to their environmental circumstances of desperation. Believe me, when a person commits a crime, it is not because he wants to, so let’s erase that thinking from society’s mind, it is because he/she feels they have to. Before we commit a crime, we must first come to the place where we believe that the crime will meet a need in our life. We don’t commit crime to create problems. We commit crimes to solve problems. Nine out of those ten problems come from the sense or state of lack. For example, if I am poor and struggling and I have a connection to an individual that will connect me to a source of drug dealing then I take the opportunity. Or let's say I rob a bank, it is not because I think it is fun or because it is appealing, no, it is because it appeases our circumstance of sense of lack. Now these labels given to us by judges, prosecutors, law-enforcements officers, and politicians are labels which derails us and limits us to become productive citizens after being released. Being a felon is like being in bondage where that person labeled a felon can hardly maneuver in life because they’re limited in society and everyday life. Meaning lack of jobs and etc…when you are a felon. So it is time for us as a nation to really change and rethink about Prison Reform. This theme I am writing is merely not just about Prison Reform no, this is me just venting. My name is Marcell Cobb and I am paving the way of change. We need change. It is time for us to change the way we think, the way we act and the way we treat each other. It is time for a revolution and I am the American Revolutionary to do it. I am radical and I am committed to leading this Revolution. Now let me tell you my labels -- Anarchist, free-speech activists and privacy crusader, as well as a social engineer. There is a coming insurrection, it’s useless to wait...for the revolution. The catastrophe is not coming, it is already here. I will be an irresponsible agitator and enemy of the “rich, ruly class”. A real-life revolutionary, who possesses a shrewd intelligence as well as a certain impulsivity. I have always made it clear that I am an anarchist-communist, as in I believe we need to abolish capitalism and the state in its entirety to realize a free, egalitarian society. I am not into watering down or selling out the message or making it more marketable for the masses. I am in prison and yes Prison sucks. Being locked up is both dehumanizing and also an excruciatingly boring experience. But I am an outspoken critic and a sceptic of life. I want people to question the conventional political narrative and what most of all think.

Wake up...Your mind is programmable -- if you’re not programming your mind, someone else will program it for you. I constantly program my mind for my benefit not for the benefit of others, all I do is think and ask questions no one wants to ask or is scared to. My mind is a hive of countercultural ideology especially insurrectionary ideas. I am fearless to some and foolish to others but what I am not is brainwashed like the masses of our nation. There is something incredibly charismatic about me. I am a young, hot-headed, hyper intelligent guy with a very low tolerance for authority and this big heart, I have this core belief that human beings are inherently good. I am a person you can trust. Let’s get to the basis, if you try to work with the system, they screw you over. So now I am dedicating myself to working outside it. Anarchy is what I plan. But boredom is counter revolutionary. Your movement needs to be fun...or no one will want to participate. So let’s have fun. I am more a street-level agitator, now it’s time to equally be active everywhere and to the US law enforcement, a threatening generation of the political activist. Street activists have very little power but I am here to build the politics of revolution. Considering today's political climate, it is becoming imperative that we tune into the world around us, take stance and give a fuck. I want an international movement -- an army so powerful we don’t need weapons. If corporations and governments are out of line today, it’s up to cowboys of a new age to turn over the system and put the people on top. We’d like to see every method of disruption possible, whether it be shutting down the power to madison square garden, or defacing 10,000 Republican websites...we’d like to see RNC delegates get harrassed on the streets, fuck ‘em up! Shut ‘em down!

One man’s freedom fighter is another man’s terrorist. Let them call us terrorists; I’ll still bomb their buildings. I envision an insurgency of sorts. A Liberation Front, which would organize as an underground cell and use nonviolent “hit and run”- type tactics to attack the rich and powerful. When I first got locked up and my mom came and visited me, I was scared, trembling and I told her “Mom, when I get out, I am going to be a better person.”. But since then I have begun my “training” which I refer to as my time in prison, conditioning myself “mentally and physically”, to become a more effective freedom fighter, reading and immersing myself in radical literature. “I just want to live my life in a way that doesn’t make a mockery of my values, wherever injustice raises its head, resist; the revolution is your permanent vocation.” I am a changed man, I am angry and really militant, I want to crack the skull on people I perceived as racist and homophobic. Some will say prison has messed me up, but I say it’s a form of clarity. “There are two paths you take after you come out of prison”. Some people go straight and try to achieve the American dream, and the others go, “Fuck it, the whole idea is bullshit as is the system that created it.”, and they go in a more radical direction. And I will take the latter path.

I will not acquiesce to their whims, i.e. the government. I am not just an anticapitalist in words; I walk the talk. I am a big anarchist who is very anti-hierarchy. The revolution to me is about not getting in their jails. In retrospect most street activists act in an impulsive, poorly planned-out action with no exit strategy. Since I have been in prison, I have seen the whole system as evil and something that must be overthrown. All I want to say now is I declare war on you corrupt people in power who have abused their power. “You have nowhere to hide because we are everywhere, ubiquitous. We are Anonymous. We are legion. We do not forgive. We do not forget. Expect us. “I want us to recognize who the bigger enemy is and how to fight them.” This is a movement I have been waiting on my entire life. I want my revolutionary ideology infused in every aspect of my life. I’ve been to jail before -- I don’t fear it. I’ve been in the game for over six years. I will build a super secret revolutionary group and I will be the silent underground hero who will risk everything to make a difference. The baseline element is “We must destroy capitalism. We must destroy their systems.” This so-called Democracy we live in here in America is a false notion. Democracy is the single most worst form of government. We, who stand up and fight are part of something powerful, we must not “succumb to fear tactics” and “to stay free”. I want an organization which is relentless and one with a non hierarchical structure, that’s what I want to create. A real-world Activism, where flesh-and-blood true believers could develop passionate followings. “We are vigilantes.” “I will continue to push the revolutionary rhetoric, I will band all of us together because we are brothers and we are all in this together, we are a family.”

“To law-enforcement everywhere listen, especially Arizona. Racial profiling anti-immigrant police state that is Arizona. Fuck you police, and you Arizona. They deserve to be attacked, risks their safety, those poor defenseless police officers who lock people up for decades, who get away with brutality and torture...who make and break their own as they see fit.” I will make sure you experience...the same kind of violence and terror, you dish out on an everyday basis. We’re not stopping until every prisoner is freed and every prison is burned to the ground. “This is anarchy, the fact that we attack governments and corporations means that we don’t give a fuck about what other think.” “Rise up. Resist.” Thank you to those past fallen soldiers for taking the hits that will give the rest of us another day to fight. I am knowledgeable and I am not afraid to get my hands dirty. I have made myself a “Straight-up-anarchist-communist militant”. I create my own propaganda. Prison’s not bad, you do your time like a warrior, and emerge more trained and disciplined than before. But it is the ones who run it who are bad and the whole US Justice System which is corrupt. We will cause havoc in honor of my fellow anarchist. In this country, there is an impenetrable cloud of secrecy over what the government and corporations do. Whatever technical crimes the government claims have been committed must be weighed against the good that comes from lifting the veil on corporate and government spying and corruption. We should not punish the courageous people that expose it. And I will expose it. I will force less on defacement and more on quietly taking over infrastructure. I hope I piss off a lot of people with my anarchist talk but at least I am real. I have fought for what I believe in my whole life. I am an idealist, who even after being jailed, will keep fighting at every occasion, and never betray myself. Not many people can say they have never betrayed themselves. “Apologies”.